“No ... no ... upstairs ... Potter!”

“I told you last week, Lovegood, we weren’t coming
back for anything less than some solid information!
Remember last week? When you wanted to swap your
daughter for that stupid bleeding headdress? And the
week before” — another bang, another squeal —
“when you thought we’d give her back if you offered
us proof there are Crumple” — bang — “Headed” —
bang — “Snorkacks?”

“No — no — I beg you!” sobbed Xenophilius. “It really
is Potter! Really!”

“And now it turns out you only called us here to try
and blow us up!” roared the Death Eater, and there
was a volley of bangs interspersed with squeals of
agony from Xenophilius.

“The place looks like it’s about to fall in, Selwyn,” said
a cool second voice, echoing up the mangled
staircase. “The stairs are completely blocked. Could
try clearing it? Might bring the place down.”

“You lying piece of filth,” shouted the wizard named
Selwyn. “You’ve never seen Potter in your life, have
you? Thought you’d lure us here to kill us, did you?
And you think you’ll get your girl back like this?”

“I swear ... I swear ... Potter’s upstairs!”

“Homenum revelio,” said the voice at the foot of the
stairs.

Harry heard Hermione gasp, and he had the odd
sensation that something was swooping low over him,
immersing his body in its shadow.



Page | 475 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“There’s someone up there all right, Selwyn,” said the
second man sharply.



“It’s Potter, I tell you, it’s Potter!” sobbed Xenophilius.
“Please ... please ... give me Luna, just let me have
Luna. ...”

“You can have your little girl, Lovegood,” said Selwyn,
“if you get up those stairs and bring me down Harry
Potter. But if this is a plot, if it’s a trick, if you’ve got
an accomplice waiting up there to ambush us, we’ll
see if we can spare a bit of your daughter for you to
bury.”

Xenophilius gave a wail of fear and despair. There
were scurryings and scrapings: Xenophilius was
trying to get through the debris on the stairs.

“Come on,” Harry whispered, “we’ve got to get out of
here.”

He started to dig himself out under cover of all the
noise Xenophilius was making on the staircase. Ron
was buried deepest: Harry and Hermione climbed, as
quietly as they could, over all the wreckage to where
he lay, trying to prise a heavy chest of drawers off his
legs. While Xenophilius ’s banging and scraping drew
nearer and nearer, Hermione managed to free Ron
with the use of a Hover Charm.

“All right,” breathed Hermione, as the broken printing
press blocking the top of the stairs began to tremble;
Xenophilius was feet away from them. She was still
white with dust. “Do you trust me, Harry?”

Harry nodded.

“Okay then,” Hermione whispered, “give me the
Invisibility Cloak. Ron, you’re going to put it on.”

Page | 476 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Me? But Harry — ”



“Please, Ron\ Harry, hold on tight to my hand, Ron,
grab my shoulder.”

Harry held out his left hand. Ron vanished beneath
the Cloak. The printing press blocking the stairs was
vibrating: Xenophilius was trying to shift it using a
Hover Charm. Harry did not know what Hermione
was waiting for.

“Hold tight,” she whispered. “Hold tight ... any second



Xenophilius’s paper- white face appeared over the top
of the sideboard.

“Obliviate\” cried Hermione, pointing her wand first
into his face, then at the floor beneath them.
“Deprimo\”

She had blasted a hole in the sitting room floor. They
fell like boulders, Harry still holding onto her hand for
dear life; there was a scream from below, and he
glimpsed two men trying to get out of the way as vast
quantities of rubble and broken furniture rained all
around them from the shattered ceiling. Hermione
twisted in midair and the thundering of the collapsing
house rang in Harry’s ears as she dragged him once
more into darkness.



Page | 477 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling






THE DEATHLY HALLOWS

Harry fell, panting, onto grass and scrambled up at
once. They seemed to have landed in the corner of a
field at dusk; Hermione was already running in a
circle around them, waving her wand.

“Protego Totalum ... Salvio Hexia ...”

“That treacherous old bleeder!” Ron panted, emerging
from beneath the Invisibility Cloak and throwing it to
Harry. “Hermione, you’re a genius, a total genius, I
can’t believe we got out of that!”

“ Cave Inimicum ... Didn’t I say it was an Erumpent
horn, didn’t I tell him? And now his house has been
blown apart!”

“Serves him right,” said Ron, examining his torn jeans
and the cuts to his legs. “What d’you reckon they’ll do
to him?”

“Oh, I hope they don’t kill him!” groaned Hermione.
“That’s why I wanted the Death Eaters to get a



Page | 478 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling



glimpse of Harry before we left, so they knew
Xenophilius hadn’t been lying!”



“Why hide me, though?” asked Ron.

“You’re supposed to be in bed with spattergroit, Ron!
They’ve kidnapped Luna because her father
supported Harry! What would happen to your family if
they knew you’re with him?”

“But what about your mum and dad?”

“They’re in Australia,” said Hermione. “They should
be all right. They don’t know anything.”

“You’re a genius,” Ron repeated, looking awed.

“Yeah, you are, Hermione,” agreed Harry fervently. “I
don’t know what we’d do without you.”

She beamed, but became solemn at once.

“What about Luna?”

“Well, if they’re telling the truth and she’s still alive —
” began Ron.

“Don’t say that, don’t say it!” squealed Hermione.

“She must be alive, she must!”

“Then she’ll be in Azkaban, I expect,” said Ron.
“Whether she survives the place, though ... Loads
don’t. ...”

“She will,” said Harry. He could not bear to
contemplate the alternative. “She’s tough, Luna,
much tougher than you’d think. She’s probably
teaching all the inmates about Wrackspurts and
Nargles.”

Page | 479 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“I hope you’re right,” said Hermione. She passed a
hand over her eyes. “I’d feel so sorry for Xenophilius if



“ — if he hadn’t just tried to sell us to the Death
Eaters, yeah,” said Ron.

They put up the tent and retreated inside it, where
Ron made them tea. After their narrow escape, the
chilly, musty old place felt like home: safe, familiar,
and friendly.

“Oh, why did we go there?” groaned Hermione after a
few minutes’ silence. “Harry, you were right, it was
Godric’s Hollow all over again, a complete waste of
time! The Deathly Hallows ... such rubbish ...
although actually,” a sudden thought seemed to have
struck her, “he might have made it all up, mightn’t
he? He probably doesn’t believe in the Deathly
Hallows at all, he just wanted to keep us talking until
the Death Eaters arrived!”

“I don’t think so,” said Ron. “It’s a damn sight harder
making stuff up when you’re under stress than you’d
think. I found that out when the Snatchers caught
me. It was much easier pretending to be Stan,
because I knew a bit about him, than inventing a
whole new person. Old Lovegood was under loads of
pressure, trying to make sure we stayed put. I reckon
he told us the truth, or what he thinks is the truth,
just to keep us talking.”

“Well, I don’t suppose it matters,” sighed Hermione.
“Even if he was being honest, I never heard such a lot
of nonsense in all my life.”

“Hang on, though,” said Ron. “The Chamber of
Secrets was supposed to be a myth, wasn’t it?”



Page | 480 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“But the Deathly Hallows can’t exist, Ron!”



“You keep saying that, but one of them can,” said
Ron. “Harry’s Invisibility Cloak — ”

“ The Tale of the Three Brothers’ is a story,” said
Hermione firmly. “A story about how humans are
frightened of death. If surviving was as simple as
hiding under the Invisibility Cloak, we’d have
everything we need already!”

“I don’t know. We could do with an unbeatable wand,”
said Harry, turning the blackthorn wand he so
disliked over in his fingers.

“There’s no such thing, Harry!”

“You said there have been loads of wands — the
Deathstick and whatever they were called — ”

“All right, even if you want to kid yourself the Elder
Wand’s real, what about the Resurrection Stone?” Her
fingers sketched quotation marks around the name,
and her tone dripped sarcasm. “No magic can raise
the dead, and that’s that!”

“When my wand connected with You-Know-Who’s, it
made my mum and dad appear ... and Cedric ...”

“But they weren’t really back from the dead, were
they?” said Hermione. “Those kinds of — of pale
imitations aren’t the same as truly bringing someone
back to life.”

“But she, the girl in the tale, didn’t really come back,
did she? The story says that once people are dead,
they belong with the dead. But the second brother
still got to see her and talk to her, didn’t he? He even
lived with her for a while. ...”

Page | 481 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




He saw concern and something less easily definable
in Hermione’s expression. Then, as she glanced at
Ron, Harry realized that it was fear: He had scared
her with his talk of living with dead people.

“So that Peverell bloke who’s buried in Godric’s
Hollow,” he said hastily, trying to sound robustly
sane, “you don’t know anything about him, then?”

“No,” she replied, looking relieved at the change of
subject. “I looked him up after I saw the mark on his
grave; if he’d been anyone famous or done anything
important, I’m sure he’d be in one of our books. The
only place I’ve managed to find the name ‘Peverell’ is
Nature’s Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy. I borrowed
it from Kreacher,” she explained as Ron raised his
eyebrows. “It lists the pure-blood families that are
now extinct in the male line. Apparently the Peverells
were one of the earliest families to vanish.”

“ ‘Extinct in the male line’?” repeated Ron.

“It means the name’s died out,” said Hermione,
“centuries ago, in the case of the Peverells. They could
still have descendants, though, they’d just be called
something different.”

And then it came to Harry in one shining piece, the
memory that had stirred at the sound of the name
“Peverell”: a filthy old man brandishing an ugly ring
in the face of a Ministry official, and he cried aloud,
“Marvolo Gaunt!”

“Sorry?” said Ron and Hermione together.

“Marvolo Gaunti You -Know- Who’s grandfather! In the
Pensieve! With Dumbledore! Marvolo Gaunt said he
was descended from the Peverells!”



Page | 482 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Ron and Hermione looked bewildered.



“The ring, the ring that became the Horcrux, Marvolo
Gaunt said it had the Peverell coat of arms on it! I
saw him waving it in the bloke from the Ministry’s
face, he nearly shoved it up his nose!”

“The Peverell coat of arms?” said Hermione sharply.
“Could you see what it looked like?”

“Not really,” said Harry, trying to remember. “There
was nothing fancy on there, as far as I could see;
maybe a few scratches. I only ever saw it really close
up after it had been cracked open.”

Harry saw Hermione ’s comprehension in the sudden
widening of her eyes. Ron was looking from one to the
other, astonished.

“Blimey ... You reckon it was this sign again? The
sign of the Hallows?”

“Why not?” said Harry excitedly. “Marvolo Gaunt was
an ignorant old git who lived like a pig, all he cared
about was his ancestry. If that ring had been passed
down through the centuries, he might not have
known what it really was. There were no books in that
house, and trust me, he wasn’t the type to read fairy
tales to his kids. He’d have loved to think the
scratches on the stone were a coat of arms, because
as far as he was concerned, having pure blood made
you practically royal.”

“Yes ... and that’s all very interesting,” said Hermione
cautiously, “but Harry, if you’re thinking what I think
you’re think — ”



Page | 483 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Well, why not? Why not?” said Harry, abandoning
caution. “It was a stone, wasn’t it?” He looked at Ron
for support. “What if it was the Resurrection Stone?”

Ron’s mouth fell open.

“Blimey — but would it still work if Dumbledore broke
— ?”

“Work? Work? Ron, it never worked! There’s no such
thing as a Resurrection Stone\”

Hermione had leapt to her feet, looking exasperated
and angry. “Harry, you’re trying to fit everything into
the Hallows story — ”

“Fit everything in?” he repeated. “Hermione, it fits of
its own accord! I know the sign of the Deathly Hallows
was on that stone! Gaunt said he was descended from
the Peverells!”

“A minute ago you told us you never saw the mark on
the stone properly!”

“Where d’you reckon the ring is now?” Ron asked
Harry. “What did Dumbledore do with it after he
broke it open?”

But Harry’s imagination was racing ahead, far beyond
Ron and Hermione ’s. ...

Three objects, or Hallows, which, if united, will make
the possessor master of Death . . . Master . . . Conqueror
... Vanquisher ... The last enemy that shall be
destroyed is death. . . .

And he saw himself, possessor of the Hallows, facing
Voldemort, whose Horcruxes were no match ...

Neither can live while the other survives. ... Was this

Page | 484 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




the answer? Hallows versus Horcruxes? Was there a
way, after all, to ensure that he was the one who
triumphed? If he were the master of the Deathly
Hallows, would he be safe?

“Harry?”

But he scarcely heard Hermione: He had pulled out
his Invisibility Cloak and was running it through his
fingers, the cloth supple as water, light as air. He had
never seen anything to equal it in his nearly seven
years in the Wizarding world. The Cloak was exactly
what Xenophilius had described: A cloak that really
and truly renders the wearer completely invisible, and
endures eternally, giving constant and impenetrable
concealment, no matter what spells are cast at it ...

And then, with a gasp, he remembered —

“Dumbledore had my Cloak the night my parents
died!”

His voice shook and he could feel the color in his face,
but he did not care.

“My mum told Sirius that Dumbledore borrowed the
Cloak! This is why! He wanted to examine it, because
he thought it was the third Hallow! Ignotus Peverell is
buried in Godric’s Hollow. ...” Harry was walking
blindly around the tent, feeling as though great new
vistas of truth were opening all around him. “He’s my
ancestor! I’m descended from the third brother! It all
makes sense!”

He felt armed in certainty, in his belief in the Hallows,
as if the mere idea of possessing them was giving him
protection, and he felt joyous as he turned back to
the other two.



Page | 485 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Harry,” said Hermione again, but he was busy
undoing the pouch around his neck, his fingers
shaking hard.

“Read it,” he told her, pushing his mother’s letter into
her hand. “Read it! Dumbledore had the Cloak,
Hermione! Why else would he want it? He didn’t need
a Cloak, he could perform a Disillusionment Charm
so powerful that he made himself completely invisible
without one!”

Something fell to the floor and rolled, glittering, under
a chair: He had dislodged the Snitch when he pulled
out the letter. He stooped to pick it up, and then the
newly tapped spring of fabulous discoveries threw
him another gift, and shock and wonder erupted
inside him so that he shouted out.

“IT’S IN HERE! He left me the ring — it’s in the
Snitch!”

“You — you reckon?”

He could not understand why Ron looked taken
aback. It was so obvious, so clear to Harry:

Everything fit, everything. . . . His Cloak was the third
Hallow, and when he discovered how to open the
Snitch he would have the second, and then all he
needed to do was find the first Hallow, the Elder
Wand, and then —

But it was as though a curtain fell on a lit stage: All
his excitement, all his hope and happiness were
extinguished at a stroke, and he stood alone in the
darkness, and the glorious spell was broken.

“That’s what he’s after.”



Page | 486 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




The change in his voice made Ron and Hermione look
even more scared.

“You-Know-Who’s after the Elder Wand.”

He turned his back on their strained, incredulous
faces. He knew it was the truth. It all made sense.
Voldemort was not seeking a new wand; he was
seeking an old wand, a very old wand indeed. Harry
walked to the entrance of the tent, forgetting about
Ron and Hermione as he looked out into the night,
thinking. ...

Voldemort had been raised in a Muggle orphanage.
Nobody could have told him The Tales of Beedle the
Bard when he was a child, any more than Harry had
heard them. Hardly any wizards believed in the
Deathly Hallows. Was it likely that Voldemort knew
about them?

Harry gazed into the darkness. ... If Voldemort had
known about the Deathly Hallows, surely he would
have sought them, done anything to possess them:
three objects that made the possessor master of
Death? If he had known about the Deathly Hallows,
he might not have needed Horcruxes in the first
place. Didn’t the simple fact that he had taken a
Hallow, and turned it into a Horcrux, demonstrate
that he did not know this last great Wizarding secret?

Which meant that Voldemort sought the Elder Wand
without realizing its full power, without
understanding that it was one of three . . . for the
wand was the Hallow that could not be hidden, whose
existence was best known. ... The bloody trail of the
Elder Wand is splattered across the pages of
Wizarding history . . .



Page | 487 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Harry watched the cloudy sky, curves of smoke-gray
and silver sliding over the face of the white moon. He
felt lightheaded with amazement at his discoveries.

He turned back into the tent. It was a shock to see
Ron and Hermione standing exactly where he had left
them, Hermione still holding Lily’s letter, Ron at her
side looking slightly anxious. Didn’t they realize how
far they had traveled in the last few minutes?

“This is it,” Harry said, trying to bring them inside the
glow of his own astonished certainty. “This explains
everything. The Deathly Hallows are real, and I’ve got
one — maybe two — ”

He held up the Snitch.

“ — and You-Know-Who’s chasing the third, but he
doesn’t realize ... he just thinks it’s a powerful wand



“Harry,” said Hermione, moving across to him and
handing him back Lily’s letter, “I’m sorry, but I think
you’ve got this wrong, all wrong.”

“But don’t you see? It all fits — ”

“No, it doesn’t,” she said. “It doesn’t , Harry, you’re
just getting carried away. Please,” she said as he
started to speak, “please just answer me this: If the
Deathly Hallows really existed, and Dumbledore knew
about them, knew that the person who possessed all
three of them would be master of Death — Harry, why
wouldn’t he have told you? Why?”

He had his answer ready.

“But you said it, Hermione! You’ve got to find out
about them for yourself! It’s a Quest!”

Page | 488 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling




“But I only said that to try and persuade you to come
to the Lovegoods’!” cried Hermione in exasperation. “I
didn’t really believe it!”

Harry took no notice.

“Dumbledore usually let me find out stuff for myself.
He let me try my strength, take risks. This feels like
the kind of thing he’d do.”

“Harry, this isn’t a game, this isn’t practice! This is
the real thing, and Dumbledore left you very clear
instructions: Find and destroy the Horcruxes! That
symbol doesn’t mean anything, forget the Deathly
Hallows, we can’t afford to get sidetracked — ”

Harry was barely listening to her. He was turning the
Snitch over and over in his hands, half expecting it to
break open, to reveal the Resurrection Stone, to prove
to Hermione that he was right, that the Deathly
Hallows were real.

She appealed to Ron.

“You don’t believe in this, do you?”

Harry looked up. Ron hesitated.

“I dunno ... I mean ... bits of it sort of fit together,”
said Ron awkwardly. “But when you look at the whole
thing ...” He took a deep breath. “I think we’re
supposed to get rid of Horcruxes, Harry. That’s what
Dumbledore told us to do. Maybe ... maybe we should
forget about this Hallows business.”

“Thank you, Ron,” said Hermione. “I’ll take first
watch.”



Page | 489 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




And she strode past Harry and sat down in the tent
entrance, bringing the action to a fierce full stop.

But Harry hardly slept that night. The idea of the
Deathly Hallows had taken possession of him, and he
could not rest while agitating thoughts whirled
through his mind: the wand, the stone, and the
Cloak, if he could just possess them all. ...

I open at the close. ... But what was ‘the close’? Why
couldn’t he have the stone now? If only he had the
stone, he could ask Dumbledore these questions in
person . . . and Harry murmured words to the Snitch
in the darkness, trying everything, even Parseltongue,
but the golden ball would not open. ...

And the wand, the Elder Wand, where was that
hidden? Where was Voldemort searching now? Harry
wished his scar would burn and show him
Voldemort’s thoughts, because for the first time ever,
he and Voldemort were united in wanting the very
same thing. . . . Hermione would not like that idea, of
course. ... But then, she did not believe ...

Xenophilius had been right, in a way . . . Limited.
Narrow. Close-minded. The truth was that she was
scared of the idea of the Deathly Hallows, especially of
the Resurrection Stone ... and Harry pressed his
mouth again to the Snitch, kissing it, nearly
swallowing it, but the cold metal did not yield. ...

It was nearly dawn when he remembered Luna, alone
in a cell in Azkaban, surrounded by dementors, and
he suddenly felt ashamed of himself. He had forgotten
all about her in his feverish contemplation of the
Hallows. If only they could rescue her; but dementors
in those numbers would be virtually unassailable.

Now he came to think about it, he had not yet tried
casting a Patronus with the blackthorn wand. ... He
must try that in the morning. . . .

Page | 490 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




If only there was a way of getting a better wand . . .

And desire for the Elder Wand, the Deathstick,
unbeatable, invincible, swallowed him once more. ...

They packed up the tent next morning and moved on
through a dreary shower of rain. The downpour
pursued them to the coast, where they pitched the
tent that night, and persisted through the whole
week, through sodden landscapes that Harry found
bleak and depressing. He could think only of the
Deathly Hallows. It was as though a flame had been
lit inside him that nothing, not Hermione ’s flat
disbelief nor Ron’s persistent doubts, could
extinguish. And yet the fiercer the longing for the
Hallows burned inside him, the less joyful it made
him. He blamed Ron and Hermione: Their determined
indifference was as bad as the relentless rain for
dampening his spirits, but neither could erode his
certainty, which remained absolute. Harry’s belief in
and longing for the Hallows consumed him so much
that he felt quite isolated from the other two and their
obsession with the Horcruxes.

“Obsession?” said Hermione in a low fierce voice,
when Harry was careless enough to use the word one
evening, after Hermione had told him off for his lack
of interest in locating more Horcruxes. “We’re not the
ones with an obsession, Harry! We’re the ones trying
to do what Dumbledore wanted us to do!”

But he was impervious to the veiled criticism.
Dumbledore had left the sign of the Hallows for
Hermione to decipher, and he had also, Harry
remained convinced of it, left the Resurrection Stone
hidden in the golden Snitch. Neither can live while the
other survives. ... master of Death ... Why didn’t Ron
and Hermione understand?



Page | 491 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“ ‘The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death,’ ”
Harry quoted calmly.

“I thought it was You-Know-Who we were supposed to
be fighting?” Hermione retorted, and Harry gave up
on her.

Even the mystery of the silver doe, which the other
two insisted on discussing, seemed less important to
Harry now, a vaguely interesting sideshow. The only
other thing that mattered to him was that his scar
had begun to prickle again, although he did all he
could to hide this fact from the other two. He sought
solitude whenever it happened, but was disappointed
by what he saw. The visions he and Voldemort were
sharing had changed in quality; they had become
blurred, shifting as though they were moving in and
out of focus. Harry was just able to make out the
indistinct features of an object that looked like a
skull, and something like a mountain that was more
shadow than substance. Used to images sharp as
reality, Harry was disconcerted by the change. He was
worried that the connection between himself and
Voldemort had been damaged, a connection that he
both feared and, whatever he had told Hermione,
prized. Somehow Harry connected these unsatisfying,
vague images with the destruction of his wand, as if it
was the blackthorn wand’s fault that he could no
longer see into Voldemort’s mind as well as before.

As the weeks crept on, Harry could not help but
notice, even through his new self-absorption, that
Ron seemed to be taking charge. Perhaps because he
was determined to make up for having walked out on
them, perhaps because Harry’s descent into
listlessness galvanized his dormant leadership
qualities, Ron was the one now encouraging and
exhorting the other two into action.



Page | 492 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Three Horcruxes left,” he kept saying. “We need a
plan of action, come on! Where haven’t we looked?
Let’s go through it again. The orphanage ...”

Diagon Alley, Hogwarts, the Riddle House, Borgin and
Burkes, Albania, every place that they knew Tom
Riddle had ever lived or worked, visited or murdered,
Ron and Hermione raked over them again, Harry
joining in only to stop Hermione pestering him. He
would have been happy to sit alone in silence, trying
to read Voldemort’s thoughts, to find out more about
the Elder Wand, but Ron insisted on journeying to
ever more unlikely places simply, Harry was aware, to
keep them moving.

“You never know,” was Ron’s constant refrain. “Upper
Flagley is a Wizarding village, he might’ve wanted to
live there. Let’s go and have a poke around.”

These frequent forays into Wizarding territory brought
them within occasional sight of Snatchers.

“Some of them are supposed to be as bad as Death
Eaters,” said Ron. “The lot that got me were a bit
pathetic, but Bill reckons some of them are really
dangerous. They said on Potterwatch — ”

“On what?” said Harry.

“ Potterwatch , didn’t I tell you that’s what it was
called? The program I keep trying to get on the radio,
the only one that tells the truth about what’s going
on! Nearly all the programs are following You-Know-
Who’s line, all except Potterwatch. I really want you to
hear it, but it’s tricky tuning in. ...”

Ron spent evening after evening using his wand to
beat out various rhythms on top of the wireless while
the dials whirled. Occasionally they would catch

Page | 493 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -J.K. Rowling




snatches of advice on how to treat dragon pox, and
once a few bars of “A Cauldron Full of Hot Strong
Love.” While he tapped, Ron continued to try to hit on
the correct password, muttering strings of random
words under his breath.

“They’re normally something to do with the Order,” he
told them. “Bill had a real knack for guessing them.
I’m bound to get one in the end. ...”

But not until March did luck favor Ron at last. Harry
was sitting in the tent entrance, on guard duty,
staring idly at a clump of grape hyacinths that had
forced their way through the chilly ground, when Ron
shouted excitedly from inside the tent.

“I’ve got it, I’ve got it! Password was Altars’! Get in
here, Harry!”

Roused for the first time in days from his
contemplation of the Deathly Hallows, Harry hurried
back inside the tent to find Ron and Hermione
kneeling on the floor beside the little radio. Hermione,
who had been polishing the sword of Gryffindor just
for something to do, was sitting open-mouthed,
staring at the tiny speaker, from which a most
familiar voice was issuing.

"... apologize for our temporary absence from the
airwaves, which was due to a number of house calls
in our area by those charming Death Eaters.”

“But that’s Lee Jordan!” said Hermione.

“I know!” beamed Ron. “Cool, eh?”

"... now found ourselves another secure location,” Lee
was saying, “and I’m pleased to tell you that two of



Page | 494 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




our regular contributors have joined me here this
evening. Evening, boys!”

“Hi.”

“Evening, River.”

“ ‘River,’ that’s Lee,” Ron explained. “They’ve all got
code names, but you can usually tell — ”

“Shh!” said Hermione.

“But before we hear from Royal and Romulus,” Lee
went on, “let’s take a moment to report those deaths
that the Wizarding Wireless Network News and Daily
Prophet don’t think important enough to mention. It is
with great regret that we inform our listeners of the
murders of Ted Tonks and Dirk Cresswell.”

Harry felt a sick, swooping in his belly. He, Ron, and
Hermione gazed at one another in horror.

“A goblin by the name of Gornuk was also killed. It is
believed that Muggle-born Dean Thomas and a
second goblin, both believed to have been traveling
with Tonks, Cresswell, and Gornuk, may have
escaped. If Dean is listening, or if anyone has any
knowledge of his whereabouts, his parents and sisters
are desperate for news.

“Meanwhile, in Gaddley, a Muggle family of five has
been found dead in their home. Muggle authorities
are attributing the deaths to a gas leak, but members
of the Order of the Phoenix inform me that it was the
Killing Curse — more evidence, as if it were needed, of
the fact that Muggle slaughter is becoming little more
than a recreational sport under the new regime.



Page | 495 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Finally, we regret to inform our listeners that the
remains of Bathilda Bagshot have been discovered in
Godric’s Hollow. The evidence is that she died several
months ago. The Order of the Phoenix informs us that
her body showed unmistakable signs of injuries
inflicted by Dark Magic.

“Listeners, I’d like to invite you now to join us in a
minute’s silence in memory of Ted Tonks, Dirk
Cresswell, Bathilda Bagshot, Gornuk, and the
unnamed, but no less regretted, Muggles murdered
by the Death Eaters.”

Silence fell, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione did not
speak. Half of Harry yearned to hear more, half of him
was afraid of what might come next. It was the first
time he had felt fully connected to the outside world
for a long time.

“Thank you,” said Lee’s voice. “And now we turn to
regular contributor Royal, for an update on how the
new Wizarding order is affecting the Muggle world.”

“Thanks, River,” said an unmistakable voice, deep,
measured, reassuring.

“Kingsley!” burst out Ron.

“We know!” said Hermione, hushing him.

“Muggles remain ignorant of the source of their
suffering as they continue to sustain heavy
casualties,” said Kingsley. “However, we continue to
hear truly inspirational stories of wizards and witches
risking their own safety to protect Muggle friends and
neighbors, often without the Muggles’ knowledge. I’d
like to appeal to all our listeners to emulate their
example, perhaps by casting a protective charm over



Page | 496 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




any Muggle dwellings in your street. Many lives could
be saved if such simple measures are taken.”

“And what would you say, Royal, to those listeners
who reply that in these dangerous times, it should be
Wizards first’?” asked Lee.

“I’d say that it’s one short step from Wizards first’ to
‘Purebloods first,’ and then to ‘Death Eaters,’ ” replied
Kingsley. “We’re all human, aren’t we? Every human
life is worth the same, and worth saving.”

“Excellently put, Royal, and you’ve got my vote for
Minister of Magic if ever we get out of this mess,” said
Lee. “And now, over to Romulus for our popular
feature ‘Pals of Potter. ’ ”

“Thanks, River,” said another very familiar voice; Ron
started to speak, but Hermione forestalled him in a
whisper.

“We know it’s Lupin\”

“Romulus, do you maintain, as you have every time
you’ve appeared on our program, that Harry Potter is
still alive?”

“I do,” said Lupin firmly. “There is no doubt at all in
my mind that his death would be proclaimed as
widely as possible by the Death Eaters if it had
happened, because it would strike a deadly blow at
the morale of those resisting the new regime. The Boy
Who Lived’ remains a symbol of everything for which
we are fighting: the triumph of good, the power of
innocence, the need to keep resisting.”

A mixture of gratitude and shame welled up in Harry.
Had Lupin forgiven him, then, for the terrible things
he had said when they had last met?

Page | 497 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“And what would you say to Harry if you knew he was
listening, Romulus?”



“I’d tell him we’re all with him in spirit,” said Lupin,
then hesitated slightly. “And I’d tell him to follow his
instincts, which are good and nearly always right.”

Harry looked at Hermione, whose eyes were full of
tears.

“Nearly always right,” she repeated.

“Oh, didn’t I tell you?” said Ron in surprise. “Bill told
me Lupin’s living with Tonks again! And apparently
she’s getting pretty big too. ...”

“... and our usual update on those friends of Harry
Potter’s who are suffering for their allegiance?” Lee
was saying.

“Well, as regular listeners will know, several of the
more outspoken supporters of Harry Potter have now
been imprisoned, including Xenophilius Lovegood,
erstwhile editor of The Quibbler,” said Lupin.

“At least he’s still alive!” muttered Ron.

“We have also heard within the last few hours that
Rubeus Hagrid” — all three of them gasped, and so
nearly missed the rest of the sentence — “well-known
gamekeeper at Hogwarts School, has narrowly
escaped arrest within the grounds of Hogwarts, where
he is rumored to have hosted a ‘Support Harry Potter’
party in his house. However, Hagrid was not taken
into custody, and is, we believe, on the run.”

“I suppose it helps, when escaping from Death Eaters,
if you’ve got a sixteen-foot-high half brother?” asked
Lee.

Page | 498 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“It would tend to give you an edge,” agreed Lupin
gravely. “May I just add that while we here at
Potterwatch applaud Hagrid’s spirit, we would urge
even the most devoted of Harry’s supporters against
following Hagrid’s lead. ‘Support Harry Potter’ parties
are unwise in the present climate.”

“Indeed they are, Romulus,” said Lee, “so we suggest
that you continue to show your devotion to the man
with the lightning scar by listening to PotterwatcM
And now let’s move to news concerning the wizard
who is proving just as elusive as Harry Potter. We like
to refer to him as the Chief Death Eater, and here to
give his views on some of the more insane rumors
circulating about him, I’d like to introduce a new
correspondent: Rodent.”

“ ‘Rodent’?” said yet another familiar voice, and Harry,
Ron, and Hermione cried out together:

“Fred!”

“No — is it George?”

“It’s Fred, I think,” said Ron, leaning in closer, as
whichever twin it was said,

“I’m not being ‘Rodent,’ no way, I told you I wanted to
be ‘Rapier’!”

“Oh, all right then. ‘Rapier,’ could you please give us
your take on the various stories we’ve been hearing
about the Chief Death Eater?”

“Yes, River, I can,” said Fred. “As our listeners will
know, unless they’ve taken refuge at the bottom of a
garden pond or somewhere similar, You-Know-Who’s
strategy of remaining in the shadows is creating a
nice little climate of panic. Mind you, if all the alleged
Page | 499 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




sightings of him are genuine, we must have a good
nineteen You-Know-Whos running around the place.”



“Which suits him, of course,” said Kingsley. “The air
of mystery is creating more terror than actually
showing himself.”

“Agreed,” said Fred. “So, people, let’s try and calm
down a bit. Things are bad enough without inventing
stuff as well. For instance, this new idea that You-
Know-Who can kill with a single glance from his eyes.
That’s a basilisk, listeners. One simple test: Check
whether the thing that’s glaring at you has got legs. If
it has, it’s safe to look into its eyes, although if it
really is You-Know-Who, that’s still likely to be the
last thing you ever do.”

For the first time in weeks and weeks, Harry was
laughing: He could feel the weight of tension leaving
him.

“And the rumors that he keeps being sighted abroad?”
asked Lee.

“Well, who wouldn’t want a nice little holiday after all
the hard work he’s been putting in?” asked Fred.
“Point is, people, don’t get lulled into a false sense of
security, thinking he’s out of the country. Maybe he
is, maybe he isn’t, but the fact remains he can move
faster than Severus Snape confronted with shampoo
when he wants to, so don’t count on him being a long
way away if you’re planning on taking any risks. I
never thought I’d hear myself say it, but safety first!”

“Thank you very much for those wise words, Rapier,”
said Lee. “Listeners, that brings us to the end of
another Potterwatch. We don’t know when it will be
possible to broadcast again, but you can be sure we
shall be back. Keep twiddling those dials: The next
Page | 500 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




password will be ‘Mad-Eye.’ Keep each other safe:
Keep faith. Good night.”



The radio’s dial twirled and the lights behind the
tuning panel went out. Harry, Ron, and Hermione
were still beaming. Hearing familiar, friendly voices
was an extraordinary tonic; Harry had become so
used to their isolation he had nearly forgotten that
other people were resisting Voldemort. It was like
waking from a long sleep.

“Good, eh?” said Ron happily.

“Brilliant,” said Harry.

“It’s so brave of them,” sighed Hermione admiringly.
“If they were found ...”

“Well, they keep on the move, don’t they?” said Ron.
“Like us.”

“But did you hear what Fred said?” asked Harry
excitedly; now the broadcast was over, his thoughts
turned again toward his all-consuming obsession.
“He’s abroad! He’s still looking for the Wand, I knew
it!”



“Harry — ”

“Come on, Hermione, why are you so determined not
to admit it? Vol — ”

“HARRY, NO!”

“ — demort’s after the Elder Wand!”

“The name’s Taboo!” Ron bellowed, leaping to his feet
as a loud crack sounded outside the tent. “I told you,
Harry, I told you, we can’t say it anymore — we’ve got

Page | 501 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




to put the protection back around us — quickly — it’s
how they find — ”

But Ron stopped talking, and Harry knew why. The
Sneakoscope on the table had lit up and begun to
spin; they could hear voices coming nearer and
nearer: rough, excited voices. Ron pulled the
Deluminator out of his pocket and clicked it: Their
lamps went out.

“Come out of there with your hands up!” came a
rasping voice through the darkness. “We know you’re
in there! You’ve got half a dozen wands pointing at
you and we don’t care who we curse!”



Page | 502 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling






MALFOY MANOR

Harry looked around at the other two, now mere
outlines in the darkness. He saw Hermione point her
wand, not toward the outside, but into his face; there
was a bang, a burst of white light, and he buckled in
agony, unable to see. He could feel his face swelling
rapidly under his hands as heavy footfalls
surrounded him.

“Get up, vermin.”

Unknown hands dragged Harry roughly off the
ground. Before he could stop them, someone had
rummaged through his pockets and removed the
blackthorn wand. Harry clutched at his excruciatingly
painful face, which felt unrecognizable beneath his
fingers, tight, swollen, and puffy as though he had
suffered some violent allergic reaction. His eyes had
been reduced to slits through which he could barely
see; his glasses fell off as he was bundled out of the
tent; all he could make out were the blurred shapes of
four or five people wrestling Ron and Hermione
outside too.

Page | 503 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling



“Get — off — her!” Ron shouted. There was the
unmistakable sound of knuckles hitting flesh: Ron
grunted in pain and Hermione screamed, “No! Leave
him alone, leave him alone!”

“Your boyfriend’s going to have worse than that done
to him if he’s on my list,” said the horribly familiar,
rasping voice. “Delicious girl ... What a treat ... I do
enjoy the softness of the skin. ...”

Harry’s stomach turned over. He knew who this was:
Fenrir Grey back, the werewolf who was permitted to
wear Death Eater robes in return for his hired
savagery.

“Search the tent!” said another voice.

Harry was thrown facedown onto the ground. A thud
told him that Ron had been cast down beside him.
They could hear footsteps and crashes; the men were
pushing over chairs inside the tent as they searched.

“Now, let’s see who we’ve got,” said Greyback’s
gloating voice from overhead, and Harry was rolled
over onto his back. A beam of wandlight fell into his
face and Grey back laughed.

“I’ll be needing butterbeer to wash this one down.
What happened to you, ugly?”

Harry did not answer immediately.

“I said,” repeated Greyback, and Harry received a
blow to the diaphragm that made him double over in
pain, “what happened to you?”

“Stung,” Harry muttered. “Been stung.”

“Yeah, looks like it,” said a second voice.

Page | 504 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“What’s your name?” snarled Greyback.

“Dudley,” said Harry.

“And your first name?”

“I — Vernon. Vernon Dudley.”

“Check the list, Scabior,” said Greyback, and Harry
heard him move sideways to look down at Ron,
instead. “And what about you, ginger?”

“Stan Shunpike,” said Ron.

“Like ’ell you are,” said the man called Scabior. “We
know Stan Shunpike, ’e’s put a bit of work our way.”

There was another thud.

“I’b Bardy,” said Ron, and Harry could tell that his
mouth was full of blood. “Bardy Weadley.”

“A Weasley?” rasped Greyback. “So you’re related to
blood traitors even if you’re not a Mudblood. And
lastly, your pretty little friend ...” The relish in his
voice made Harry’s flesh crawl.

“Easy, Greyback,” said Scabior over the jeering of the
others.

“Oh, I’m not going to bite just yet. We’ll see if she’s a
bit quicker at remembering her name than Barny.
Who are you, girly?”

“Penelope Clearwater,” said Hermione. She sounded
terrified, but convincing.

“What’s your blood status?”



Page | 505 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Half-blood,” said Hermione.



“Easy enough to check,” said Scabior. “But the ’ole lot
of ’em look like they could still be ’ogwarts age — ”

“Weh lebt,” said Ron.

“Left, ’ave you, ginger?” said Scabior. “And you
decided to go camping? And you thought, just for a
laugh, you’d use the Dark Lord’s name?”

“Nod a laugh,” said Ron. “Aggiden.”

“Accident?” There was more jeering laughter.

“You know who used to like using the Dark Lord’s
name, Weasley?” growled Greyback. “The Order of the
Phoenix. Mean anything to you?”

“Doh.”

“Well, they don’t show the Dark Lord proper respect,
so the name’s been Tabooed. A few Order members
have been tracked that way. We’ll see. Bind them up
with the other two prisoners!”

Someone yanked Harry up by the hair, dragged him a
short way, pushed him down into a sitting position,
then started binding him back-to-back with other
people. Harry was still half blind, barely able to see
anything through his puffed-up eyes. When at last
the man tying them had walked away, Harry
whispered to the other prisoners.

“Anyone still got a wand?”

“No,” said Ron and Hermione from either side of him.

“This is all my fault. I said the name, I’m sorry — ”

Page | 506 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Harry?”



It was a new, but familiar, voice, and it came from
directly behind Harry, from the person tied to
Hermione’s left.

“Dean?”

“It is you! If they find out who they’ve got — ! They’re
Snatchers, they’re only looking for truants to sell for
gold — ”

“Not a bad little haul for one night,” Greyback was
saying, as a pair of hobnailed boots marched close by
Harry and they heard more crashes from inside the
tent. “A Mudblood, a runaway goblin, and three
truants. You checked their names on the list yet,
Scabior?” he roared.

“Yeah. There’s no Vernon Dudley on ’ere, Greyback.”

“Interesting,” said Greyback. “That’s interesting.”

He crouched down beside Harry, who saw, through
the infinitesimal gap left between his swollen eyelids,
a face covered in matted gray hair and whiskers, with
pointed brown teeth and sores at the corners of his
mouth. Greyback smelled as he had done at the top of
the tower where Dumbledore had died: of dirt, sweat,
and blood.

“So you aren’t wanted, then, Vernon? Or are you on
that list under a different name? What House were
you in at Hogwarts?”

“Slytherin,” said Harry automatically.



Page | 507 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Funny ’ow they all thinks we wants to ’ear that,”
jeered Scabior out of the shadows. “But none of ’em
can tell us where the common room is.”

“It’s in the dungeons,” said Harry clearly. “You enter
through the wall. It’s full of skulls and stuff and it’s
under the lake, so the light’s all green.”

There was a short pause.

“Well, well, looks like we really ’ave caught a little
Slytherin,” said Scabior. “Good for you, Vernon,

’cause there ain’t a lot of Mudblood Slytherins. Who’s
your father?”

“He works at the Ministry,” Harry lied. He knew that
his whole story would collapse with the smallest
investigation, but on the other hand, he only had
until his face regained its usual appearance before
the game was up in any case. “Department of Magical
Accidents and Catastrophes.”

“You know what, Greyback,” said Scabior. “I think
there is a Dudley in there.”

Harry could barely breathe: Could luck, sheer luck,
get them safely out of this?

“Well, well,” said Greyback, and Harry could hear the
tiniest note of trepidation in that callous voice, and
knew that Greyback was wondering whether he had
indeed just attacked and bound the son of a Ministry
official. Harry’s heart was pounding against the ropes
around his ribs; he would not have been surprised to
know that Greyback could see it. “If you’re telling the
truth, ugly, you’ve got nothing to fear from a trip to
the Ministry. I expect your father’ll reward us just for
picking you up.”



Page | 508 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“But,” said Harry, his mouth bone dry, “if you just let
us — ”



“Hey!” came a shout from inside the tent. “Look at
this, Greyback!”

A dark figure came bustling toward them, and Harry
saw a glint of silver in the light of their wands. They
had found Gryffindor’s sword.

“Ve-e-ry nice,” said Greyback appreciatively, taking it
from his companion. “Oh, very nice indeed. Looks
goblin-made, that. Where did you get something like
this?”

“It’s my father’s,” Harry lied, hoping against hope that
it was too dark for Greyback to see the name etched
just below the hilt. “We borrowed it to cut firewood — ”

“ ’ang on a minute, Greyback! Look at this, in the
Propheti”

As Scabior said it, Harry’s scar, which was stretched
tight across his distended forehead, burned savagely.
More clearly than he could make out anything around
him, he saw a towering building, a grim fortress, jet-
black and forbidding; Voldemort’s thoughts had
suddenly become razor-sharp again; he was gliding
toward the gigantic building with a sense of calmly
euphoric purpose. ...

So close ...So close . . .

With a huge effort of will Harry closed his mind to
Voldemort’s thoughts, pulling himself back to where
he sat, tied to Ron, Hermione, Dean, and Griphook in
the darkness, listening to Greyback and Scabior.



Page | 509 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“ ‘’ermione Granger,’ ” Scabior was saying, “ ‘the
Mudblood who is known to be traveling with ’arry
Potter.’ ”

Harry’s scar burned in the silence, but he made a
supreme effort to keep himself present, not to slip
into Voldemort’s mind. He heard the creak of
Greyback’s boots as he crouched down in front of
Hermione.

“You know what, little girly? This picture looks a hell
of a lot like you.”

“It isn’t! It isn’t me!”

Hermione ’s terrified squeak was as good as a
confession.

“ ‘... known to be traveling with Harry Potter,’ ”
repeated Grey back quietly.

A stillness had settled over the scene. Harry’s scar
was exquisitely painful, but he struggled with all his
strength against the pull of Voldemort’s thoughts: It
had never been so important to remain in his own
right mind.

“Well, this changes things, doesn’t it?” whispered
Greyback. Nobody spoke: Harry sensed the gang of
Snatchers watching, frozen, and felt Hermione ’s arm
trembling against his. Greyback got up and took a
couple of steps to where Harry sat, crouching down
again to stare closely at his misshapen features.

“What’s that on your forehead, Vernon?” he asked
softly, his breath foul in Harry’s nostrils as he
pressed a filthy finger to the taut scar.



Page | 510 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Don’t touch it!” Harry yelled; he could not stop
himself; he thought he might be sick from the pain of
it.



“I thought you wore glasses, Potter?” breathed
Greyback.

“I found glasses!” yelped one of the Snatchers
skulking in the background. “There was glasses in the
tent, Greyback, wait — ”

And seconds later Harry’s glasses had been rammed
back onto his face. The Snatchers were closing in
now, peering at him.

“It is!” rasped Greyback. “We’ve caught Potter!”

They all took several steps backward, stunned by
what they had done. Harry, still fighting to remain
present inside his own splitting head, could think of
nothing to say: Fragmented visions were breaking
across the surface of his mind —

— He was gliding around the high walls of the black
fortress —

No, he was Harry, tied up and wandless, in grave
danger —

— looking up, up to the topmost window, the highest
tower —

He was Harry, and they were discussing his fate in
low voices —

— Time to fly ...

“...to the Ministry?”

Page | 511 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“To hell with the Ministry,” growled Greyback. “They’ll
take the credit, and we won’t get a look in. I say we
take him straight to You-Know-Who.”

“Will you summon ’im? ’ere?” said Scabior, sounding
awed, terrified.

“No,” snarled Greyback, “I haven’t got — they say he’s
using the Malfoys’ place as a base. We’ll take the boy
there.”

Harry thought he knew why Greyback was not calling
Voldemort. The werewolf might be allowed to wear
Death Eater robes when they wanted to use him, but
only Voldemort’s inner circle were branded with the
Dark Mark: Greyback had not been granted this
highest honor.

Harry’s scar seared again —

— and he rose into the night, flying straight up to the
window at the very top of the tower —

"... completely sure it’s him? ’Cause if it ain’t,
Greyback, we’re dead.”

“Who’s in charge here?” roared Greyback, covering his
moment of inadequacy. “I say that’s Potter, and him
plus his wand, that’s two hundred thousand Galleons
right there! But if you’re too gutless to come along,
any of you, it’s all for me, and with any luck, I’ll get
the girl thrown in!”

— The window was the merest slit in the black rock,
not big enough for a man to enter. ...A skeletal figure
was just visible through it, curled beneath a blanket. . . .
Dead, or sleeping ... ?



Page | 512 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“All right!” said Scabior. “All right, we’re in! And what
about the rest of ’em, Greyback, what’ll we do with



’em?






“Might as well take the lot. We’ve got two Mudbloods,
that’s another ten Galleons. Give me the sword as
well. If they’re rubies, that’s another small fortune
right there.”

The prisoners were dragged to their feet. Harry could
hear Hermione’s breathing, fast and terrified.

“Grab hold and make it tight. I’ll do Potter!” said
Greyback, seizing a fistful of Harry’s hair; Harry could
feel his long yellow nails scratching his scalp. “On
three! One — two — three — ”

They Disapparated, pulling the prisoners with them.
Harry struggled, trying to throw off Greyback’s hand,
but it was hopeless: Ron and Hermione were
squeezed tightly against him on either side, he could
not separate from the group, and as the breath was
squeezed out of him his scar seared more painfully
still —

— as he forced himself through the slit of a window
like a snake and landed, lightly as vapor, inside the
cell-like room —

The prisoners lurched into one another as they
landed in a country lane. Harry’s eyes, still puffy, took
a moment to acclimatize, then he saw a pair of
wrought-iron gates at the foot of what looked like a
long drive. He experienced the tiniest trickle of relief.
The worst had not happened yet: Voldemort was not
here. He was, Harry knew, for he was fighting to
resist the vision, in some strange, fortresslike place,
at the top of a tower. How long it would take



Page | 513 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Voldemort to get to this place, once he knew that
Harry was here, was another matter. ...

One of the Snatchers strode to the gates and shook
them.

“How do we get in? They’re locked, Greyback, I can’t
— blimey!”

He whipped his hands away in fright. The iron was
contorting, twisting itself out of the abstract furls and
coils into a frightening face, which spoke in a
clanging, echoing voice: “State your purpose!”

“We’ve got Potter!” Greyback roared triumphantly.
“We’ve captured Harry Potter!”

The gates swung open.

“Come on!” said Greyback to his men, and the
prisoners were shunted through the gates and up the
drive, between high hedges that muffled their
footsteps. Harry saw a ghostly white shape above
him, and realized it was an albino peacock. He
stumbled and was dragged onto his feet by Greyback;
now he was staggering along sideways, tied back-to-
back to the four other prisoners. Closing his puffy
eyes, he allowed the pain in his scar to overcome him
for a moment, wanting to know what Voldemort was
doing, whether he knew yet that Harry was caught. ...

The emaciated figure stirred beneath its thin blanket
and rolled over toward him, eyes opening in a skull of
a face. ... The frail man sat up, great sunken eyes
fixed upon him, upon Voldemort, and then he smiled.
Most of his teeth were gone. ...

“So, you have come. I thought you would ... one day.
But your journey was pointless. I never had it.”

Page | 514 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“ You lie]”



As Voldemort’s anger throbbed inside him, Harry’s
scar threatened to burst with pain, and he wrenched
his mind back to his own body, fighting to remain
present as the prisoners were pushed over gravel.

Light spilled out over all of them.

“What is this?” said a woman’s cold voice.

“We’re here to see He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!”
rasped Greyback.

“Who are you?”

“You know me!” There was resentment in the
werewolf’s voice. “Fenrir Greyback! We’ve caught
Harry Potter!”

Greyback seized Harry and dragged him around to
face the light, forcing the other prisoners to shuffle
around too.

“I know ’e’s swollen, ma’am, but it’s ’im!” piped up
Scabior. “If you look a bit closer, you’ll see ’is scar.
And this ’ere, see the girl? The Mudblood who’s been
traveling around with ’im, ma’am. There’s no doubt
it’s ’im, and we’ve got ’is wand as well! ’Ere, ma’am — ”

Through his puffy eyelids Harry saw Narcissa Malfoy
scrutinizing his swollen face. Scabior thrust the
blackthorn wand at her. She raised her eyebrows.

“Bring them in,” she said.

Harry and the others were shoved and kicked up
broad stone steps into a hallway lined with portraits.



Page | 515 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Follow me,” said Narcissa, leading the way across the
hall. “My son, Draco, is home for his Easter holidays.
If that is Harry Potter, he will know.”

The drawing room dazzled after the darkness outside;
even with his eyes almost closed Harry could make
out the wide proportions of the room. A crystal
chandelier hung from the ceiling, more portraits
against the dark purple walls. Two figures rose from
chairs in front of an ornate marble fireplace as the
prisoners were forced into the room by the Snatchers.

“What is this?”

The dreadfully familiar, drawling voice of Lucius
Malfoy fell on Harry’s ears. He was panicking now: He
could see no way out, and it was easier, as his fear
mounted, to block out Voldemort’s thoughts, though
his scar was still burning.

“They say they’ve got Potter,” said Narcissa’s cold
voice. “Draco, come here.”

Harry did not dare look directly at Draco, but saw
him obliquely: a figure slightly taller than he was,
rising from an armchair, his face a pale and pointed
blur beneath white-blond hair.

Greyback forced the prisoners to turn again so as to
place Harry directly beneath the chandelier.

“Well, boy?” rasped the werewolf.

Harry was facing a mirror over the fireplace, a great
gilded thing in an intricately scrolled frame. Through
the slits of his eyes he saw his own reflection for the
first time since leaving Grimmauld Place.



Page | 516 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




His face was huge, shiny, and pink, every feature
distorted by Hermione’s jinx. His black hair reached
his shoulders and there was a dark shadow around
his jaw. Had he not known that it was he who stood
there, he would have wondered who was wearing his
glasses. He resolved not to speak, for his voice was
sure to give him away; yet he still avoided eye contact
with Draco as the latter approached.

“Well, Draco?” said Lucius Malfoy. He sounded avid.
“Is it? Is it Harry Potter?”

“I can’t — I can’t be sure,” said Draco. He was keeping
his distance from Greyback, and seemed as scared of
looking at Harry as Harry was of looking at him.

“But look at him carefully, look! Come closer!”

Harry had never heard Lucius Malfoy so excited.

“Draco, if we are the ones who hand Potter over to the
Dark Lord, everything will be forgiv — ”

“Now, we won’t be forgetting who actually caught him,
I hope, Mr. Malfoy?” said Greyback menacingly.

“Of course not, of course not!” said Lucius
impatiently. He approached Harry himself, came so
close that Harry could see the usually languid, pale
face in sharp detail even through his swollen eyes.
With his face a puffy mask, Harry felt as though he
was peering out from between the bars of a cage.

“What did you do to him?” Lucius asked Greyback.
“How did he get into this state?”

“That wasn’t us.”

“Looks more like a Stinging Jinx to me,” said Lucius.

Page | 517 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




His gray eyes raked Harry’s forehead.



“There’s something there,” he whispered, “it could be
the scar, stretched tight. ... Draco, come here, look
properly! What do you think?”

Harry saw Draco’s face up close now, right beside his
father’s. They were extraordinarily alike, except that
while his father looked beside himself with
excitement, Draco’s expression was full of reluctance,
even fear.

“I don’t know,” he said, and he walked away toward
the fireplace where his mother stood watching.

“We had better be certain, Lucius,” Narcissa called to
her husband in her cold, clear voice. “Completely sure
that it is Potter, before we summon the Dark Lord . . .
They say this is his” — she was looking closely at the
blackthorn wand — “but it does not resemble
Ollivander’s description. ... If we are mistaken, if we
call the Dark Lord here for nothing . . . Remember
what he did to Rowle and Dolohov?”

“What about the Mudblood, then?” growled Greyback.
Harry was nearly thrown off his feet as the Snatchers
forced the prisoners to swivel around again, so that
the light fell on Hermione instead.

“Wait,” said Narcissa sharply. “Yes — yes, she was in
Madam Malkin’s with Potter! I saw her picture in the
Prophett Look, Draco, isn’t it the Granger girl?”

“I ... maybe ... yeah.”

“But then, that’s the Weasley boy!” shouted Lucius,
striding around the bound prisoners to face Ron. “It’s
them, Potter’s friends — Draco, look at him, isn’t it
Arthur Weasley’s son, what’s his name — ?”

Page | 518 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Yeah,” said Draco again, his back to the prisoners.

“It could be.”

The drawing room door opened behind Harry. A
woman spoke, and the sound of the voice wound
Harry’s fear to an even higher pitch.

“What is this? What’s happened, Cissy?”

Bellatrix Lestrange walked slowly around the
prisoners, and stopped on Harry’s right, staring at
Hermione through her heavily lidded eyes.

“But surely,” she said quietly, “this is the Mudblood
girl? This is Granger?”

“Yes, yes, it’s Granger!” cried Lucius. “And beside her,
we think, Potter! Potter and his friends, caught at
last!”

“Potter?” shrieked Bellatrix, and she backed away, the
better to take in Harry. “Are you sure? Well then, the
Dark Lord must be informed at once!”

She dragged back her left sleeve: Harry saw the Dark
Mark burned into the flesh of her arm, and knew that
she was about to touch it, to summon her beloved
master —

“I was about to call him!” said Lucius, and his hand
actually closed upon Bellatrix’s wrist, preventing her
from touching the Mark. “I shall summon him, Bella,
Potter has been brought to my house, and it is
therefore upon my authority — ”

“Your authority!” she sneered, attempting to wrench
her hand from his grasp. “You lost your authority
when you lost your wand, Lucius! How dare you! Take
your hands off me!”

Page | 519 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“This is nothing to do with you, you did not capture
the boy — ”

“Begging your pardon, Mr. Malfoy,” interjected
Greyback, “but it’s us that caught Potter, and it’s us
that 11 be claiming the gold — ”

“Gold!” laughed Bellatrix, still attempting to throw off
her brother-in-law, her free hand groping in her
pocket for her wand. “Take your gold, filthy
scavenger, what do I want with gold? I seek only the
honor of his — of — ”

She stopped struggling, her dark eyes fixed upon
something Harry could not see. Jubilant at her
capitulation, Lucius threw her hand from him and
ripped up his own sleeve —

“STOP!” shrieked Bellatrix. “Do not touch it, we shall
all perish if the Dark Lord comes now!”

Lucius froze, his index finger hovering over his own
Mark. Bellatrix strode out of Harry’s limited line of
vision.

“What is that?” he heard her say.

“Sword,” grunted an out-of-sight Snatcher.

“Give it to me.”

“It’s not yorn, missus, it’s mine, I reckon I found it.”

There was a bang and a flash of red light: Harry knew
that the Snatcher had been Stunned. There was a
roar of anger from his fellows: Scabior drew his wand.

“What d’you think you’re playing at, woman?”



Page | 520 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Stupefyl” she screamed. “Stupefyl”



They were no match for her, even though there were
four of them against one of her: She was a witch, as
Harry knew, with prodigious skill and no conscience.
They fell where they stood, all except Greyback, who
had been forced into a kneeling position, his arms
outstretched. Out of the corners of his eyes Harry saw
Bellatrix bearing down upon the werewolf, the sword
of Gryffindor gripped tightly in her hand, her face
waxen.

“Where did you get this sword?” she whispered to
Greyback as she pulled his wand out of his
unresisting grip.

“How dare you?” he snarled, his mouth the only thing
that could move as he was forced to gaze up at her.

He bared his pointed teeth. “Release me, woman!”

“Where did you find this sword?” she repeated,
brandishing it in his face. “Snape sent it to my vault
in Gringotts!”

“It was in their tent,” rasped Greyback. “Release me, I
say!”

She waved her wand, and the werewolf sprang to his
feet, but appeared too wary to approach her. He
prowled behind an armchair, his filthy curved nails
clutching its back.

“Draco, move this scum outside,” said Bellatrix,
indicating the unconscious men. “If you haven’t got
the guts to finish them, then leave them in the
courtyard for me.”

“Don’t you dare speak to Draco like — ” said Narcissa
furiously, but Bellatrix screamed,

Page | 521 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Be quiet! The situation is graver than you can
possibly imagine, Cissy! We have a very serious
problem!”

She stood, panting slightly, looking down at the
sword, examining its hilt. Then she turned to look at
the silent prisoners.

“If it is indeed Potter, he must not be harmed,” she
muttered, more to herself than to the others. “The
Dark Lord wishes to dispose of Potter himself. . . . But
if he finds out ... I must ... I must know. ...”

She turned back to her sister again.

“The prisoners must be placed in the cellar, while I
think what to do!”

“This is my house, Bella, you don’t give orders in my



“Do it! You have no idea of the danger we are in!”
shrieked Bellatrix. She looked frightening, mad; a
thin stream of fire issued from her wand and burned
a hole in the carpet.

Narcissa hesitated for a moment, then addressed the
werewolf.

“Take these prisoners down to the cellar, Greyback.”

“Wait,” said Bellatrix sharply. “All except ... except for
the Mudblood.”

Greyback gave a grunt of pleasure.

“No!” shouted Ron. “You can have me, keep me!”



Page | 522 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Bellatrix hit him across the face; the blow echoed
around the room.



“If she dies under questioning, I’ll take you next,” she
said. “Blood traitor is next to Mudblood in my book.
Take them downstairs, Greyback, and make sure they
are secure, but do nothing more to them — yet.”

She threw Greyback’s wand back to him, then took a
short silver knife from under her robes. She cut
Hermione free from the other prisoners, then dragged
her by the hair into the middle of the room, while
Greyback forced the rest of them to shuffle across to
another door, into a dark passageway, his wand held
out in front of him, projecting an invisible and
irresistible force.

“Reckon she’ll let me have a bit of the girl when she’s
finished with her?” Greyback crooned as he forced
them along the corridor. “I’d say I’ll get a bite or two,
wouldn’t you, ginger?”

Harry could feel Ron shaking. They were forced down
a steep flight of stairs, still tied back-to-back and in
danger of slipping and breaking their necks at any
moment. At the bottom was a heavy door. Greyback
unlocked it with a tap of his wand, then forced them
into a dank and musty room and left them in total
darkness. The echoing bang of the slammed cellar
door had not died away before there was a terrible,
drawn-out scream from directly above them.

“HERMIONE!” Ron bellowed, and he started to writhe
and struggle against the ropes tying them together, so
that Harry staggered. “HERMIONE!”

“Be quiet!” Harry said. “Shut up, Ron, we need to
work out a way — ”



Page | 523 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“HERMIONE! HERMIONE!”



“We need a plan, stop yelling — we need to get these
ropes off — ”

“Harry?” came a whisper through the darkness. “Ron?
Is that you?”

Ron stopped shouting. There was a sound of
movement close by them, then Harry saw a shadow
moving closer.

“Harry? Ron?”

“Luna?”

“Yes, it’s me! Oh no, I didn’t want you to be caught!”

“Luna, can you help us get these ropes off?” said
Harry.

“Oh yes, I expect so. ... There’s an old nail we use if
we need to break anything. ... Just a moment ...”

Hermione screamed again from overhead, and they
could hear Bellatrix screaming too, but her words
were inaudible, for Ron shouted again, “HERMIONE!
HERMIONE!”

“Mr. Ollivander?” Harry could hear Luna saying. “Mr.
Ollivander, have you got the nail? If you just move
over a little bit... I think it was beside the water jug.



She was back within seconds.
“You’ll need to stay still,” she said.



Page | 524 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Harry could feel her digging at the rope’s tough fibers
to work the knots free. From upstairs they heard
Bellatrix’s voice.

“I’m going to ask you again! Where did you get this
sword? Where?”

“We found it — we found it — PLEASE!” Hermione
screamed again; Ron struggled harder than ever, and
the rusty nail slipped onto Harry’s wrist.

“Ron, please stay still!” Luna whispered. “I can’t see
what I’m doing — ”

“My pocket!” said Ron. “In my pocket, there’s a
Deluminator, and it’s full of light!”

A few seconds later, there was a click, and the
luminescent spheres the Deluminator had sucked
from the lamps in the tent flew into the cellar: Unable
to rejoin their sources, they simply hung there, like
tiny suns, flooding the underground room with light.
Harry saw Luna, all eyes in her white face, and the
motionless figure of Ollivander the wandmaker,
curled up on the floor in the corner. Craning around,
he caught sight of their fellow prisoners: Dean and
Griphook the goblin, who seemed barely conscious,
kept standing by the ropes that bound him to the
humans.

“Oh, that’s much easier, thanks, Ron,” said Luna,
and she began hacking at their bindings again.

“Hello, Dean!”

From above came Bellatrix’s voice.

“You are lying, filthy Mudblood, and I know it! You
have been inside my vault at Gringotts! Tell the truth,
tell the truth\”

Page | 525 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Another terrible scream



“HERMIONE!”

“What else did you take? What else have you got? Tell
me the truth or, I swear, I shall run you through with
this knife!”

“There!”

Harry felt the ropes fall away and turned, rubbing his
wrists, to see Ron running around the cellar, looking
up at the low ceiling, searching for a trapdoor. Dean,
his face bruised and bloody, said “Thanks” to Luna
and stood there, shivering, but Griphook sank onto
the cellar floor, looking groggy and disoriented, many
welts across his swarthy face.

Ron was now trying to Disapparate without a wand.

“There’s no way out, Ron,” said Luna, watching his
fruitless efforts. “The cellar is completely escape-
proof. I tried, at first. Mr. Ollivander has been here for
a long time, he’s tried everything.”

Hermione was screaming again: The sound went
through Harry like physical pain. Barely conscious of
the fierce prickling of his scar, he too started to run
around the cellar, feeling the walls for he hardly knew
what, knowing in his heart that it was useless.

“What else did you take, what else? ANSWER ME!
CRUCIO\”

Hermione ’s screams echoed off the walls upstairs,

Ron was half sobbing as he pounded the walls with
his fists, and Harry in utter desperation seized
Hagrid’s pouch from around his neck and groped
inside it: He pulled out Dumbledore’s Snitch and
Page | 526 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




shook it, hoping for he did not know what — nothing
happened — he waved the broken halves of the
phoenix wand, but they were lifeless — the mirror
fragment fell sparkling to the floor, and he saw a
gleam of brightest blue —

Dumbledore’s eye was gazing at him out of the mirror.

“Help us!” he yelled at it in mad desperation. “We’re in
the cellar of Malfoy Manor, help us!”

The eye blinked and was gone.

Harry was not even sure that it had really been there.
He tilted the shard of mirror this way and that, and
saw nothing reflected there but the walls and ceiling
of their prison, and upstairs Hermione was screaming
worse than ever, and next to him Ron was bellowing,
“HERMIONE! HERMIONE!”

“How did you get into my vault?” they heard Bellatrix
scream. “Did that dirty little goblin in the cellar help
you?”

“We only met him tonight!” Hermione sobbed. “We’ve
never been inside your vault. ... It isn’t the real sword!
It’s a copy, just a copy!

“A copy?” screeched Bellatrix. “Oh, a likely story!”

“But we can find out easily!” came Lucius’s voice.
“Draco, fetch the goblin, he can tell us whether the
sword is real or not!”

Harry dashed across the cellar to where Griphook was
huddled on the floor.



Page | 527 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Griphook,” he whispered into the goblin’s pointed
ear, “you must tell them that sword’s a fake, they
mustn’t know it’s the real one, Griphook, please — ”

He could hear someone scuttling down the cellar
steps; next moment, Draco’s shaking voice spoke
from behind the door.

“Stand back. Line up against the back wall. Don’t try
anything, or I’ll kill you!”

They did as they were bidden; as the lock turned, Ron
clicked the Deluminator and the lights whisked back
into his pocket, restoring the cellar’s darkness. The
door flew open; Malfoy marched inside, wand held out
in front of him, pale and determined. He seized the
little goblin by the arm and backed out again,
dragging Griphook with him. The door slammed shut
and at the same moment a loud crack echoed inside
the cellar.

Ron clicked the Deluminator. Three balls of light flew
back into the air from his pocket, revealing Dobby the
house-elf, who had just Apparated into their midst.

“DOB — !”



Harry hit Ron on the arm to stop him shouting, and
Ron looked terrified at his mistake. Footsteps crossed
the ceiling overhead: Draco marching Griphook to
Bellatrix.

Dobby’s enormous, tennis-ball-shaped eyes were
wide; he was trembling from his feet to the tips of his
ears. He was back in the home of his old masters, and
it was clear that he was petrified.

“Harry Potter,” he squeaked in the tiniest quiver of a
voice, “Dobby has come to rescue you.”

Page | 528 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“But how did you — ?”



An awful scream drowned Harry’s words: Hermione
was being tortured again. He cut to the essentials.

“You can Disapparate out of this cellar?” he asked
Dobby, who nodded, his ears flapping.

“And you can take humans with you?”

Dobby nodded again.

“Right. Dobby, I want you to grab Luna, Dean, and
Mr. Ollivander, and take them — take them to — ”

“Bill and Fleur’s,” said Ron. “Shell Cottage on the
outskirts of Tinworth!”

The elf nodded for a third time.

“And then come back,” said Harry. “Can you do that,
Dobby?”

“Of course, Harry Potter,” whispered the little elf. He
hurried over to Mr. Ollivander, who appeared to be
barely conscious. He took one of the wandmaker’s
hands in his own, then held out the other to Luna
and Dean, neither of whom moved.

“Harry, we want to help you!” Luna whispered.

“We can’t leave you here,” said Dean.

“Go, both of you! We’ll see you at Bill and Fleur’s.”

As Harry spoke, his scar burned worse than ever, and
for a few seconds he looked down, not upon the
wandmaker, but on another man who was just as old,
just as thin, but laughing scornfully.

Page | 529 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“ Kill me, then, Voldemort, I welcome death! But my
death will not bring you what you seek. . . . There is so
much you do not understand. ...”

He felt Voldemort’s fury, but as Hermione screamed
again he shut it out, returning to the cellar and the
horror of his own present.

“Go!” Harry beseeched Luna and Dean. “Go! Well
follow, just go!”

They caught hold of the elf’s outstretched fingers.
There was another loud crack, and Dobby, Luna,
Dean, and Ollivander vanished.

“What was that?” shouted Lucius Malfoy from over
their heads. “Did you hear that? What was that noise
in the cellar?”

Harry and Ron stared at each other.

“Draco — no, call Wormtail! Make him go and check!”

Footsteps crossed the room overhead, then there was
silence. Harry knew that the people in the drawing
room were listening for more noises from the cellar.

“We’re going to have to try and tackle him,” he
whispered to Ron. They had no choice: The moment
anyone entered the room and saw the absence of
three prisoners, they were lost. “Leave the lights on,”
Harry added, and as they heard someone descending
the steps outside the door, they backed against the
wall on either side of it.

“Stand back,” came Wormtail’s voice. “Stand away
from the door. I am coming in.”



Page | 530 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




The door flew open. For a split second Wormtail gazed
into the apparently empty cellar, ablaze with light
from the three miniature suns floating in midair.

Then Harry and Ron launched themselves upon him.
Ron seized Wormtail’s wand arm and forced it
upward; Harry slapped a hand to his mouth, muffling
his voice. Silently they struggled: Wormtail’s wand
emitted sparks; his silver hand closed around Harry’s
throat.

“What is it, Wormtail?” called Lucius Malfoy from
above.

“Nothing!” Ron called back, in a passable imitation of
Wormtail’s wheezy voice. “All fine!”

Harry could barely breathe.

“You’re going to kill me?” Harry choked, attempting to
prise off the metal fingers. “After I saved your life?

You owe me, Wormtail!”

The silver fingers slackened. Harry had not expected
it: He wrenched himself free, astonished, keeping his
hand over Wormtail’s mouth. He saw the ratlike
man’s small watery eyes widen with fear and surprise:
He seemed just as shocked as Harry at what his hand
had done, at the tiny, merciful impulse it had
betrayed, and he continued to struggle more
powerfully, as though to undo that moment of
weakness.

“And well have that,” whispered Ron, tugging
Wormtail’s wand from his other hand.

Wandless, helpless, Pettigrew’s pupils dilated in
terror. His eyes had slid from Harry’s face to
something else. His own silver fingers were moving
inexorably toward his own throat.

Page | 531 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“No — ”



Without pausing to think, Harry tried to drag back
the hand, but there was no stopping it. The silver tool
that Voldemort had given his most cowardly servant
had turned upon its disarmed and useless owner;
Pettigrew was reaping his reward for his hesitation,
his moment of pity; he was being strangled before
their eyes.

“No!”

Ron had released Wormtail too, and together he and
Harry tried to pull the crushing metal fingers from
around Wormtail’s throat, but it was no use.

Pettigrew was turning blue.

“Relashiol” said Ron, pointing the wand at the silver
hand, but nothing happened; Pettigrew dropped to his
knees, and at the same moment, Hermione gave a
dreadful scream from overhead. Wormtail’s eyes rolled
upward in his purple face; he gave a last twitch, and
was still.

Harry and Ron looked at each other, then leaving
Wormtail’s body on the floor behind them, ran up the
stairs and back into the shadowy passageway leading
to the drawing room. Cautiously they crept along it
until they reached the drawing room door, which was
ajar. Now they had a clear view of Bellatrix looking
down at Griphook, who was holding Gryffindor’s
sword in his long-fingered hands. Hermione was lying
at Bellatrix’s feet. She was barely stirring.

“Well?” Bellatrix said to Griphook. “Is it the true
sword?”

Harry waited, holding his breath, fighting against the
prickling of his scar.

Page | 532 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“No,” said Griphook. “It is a fake.”

“Are you sure?” panted Bellatrix. “Quite sure?”

“Yes,” said the goblin.

Relief broke across her face, all tension drained from
it.

“Good,” she said, and with a casual flick of her wand
she slashed another deep cut into the goblin’s face,
and he dropped with a yell at her feet. She kicked him
aside. “And now,” she said in a voice that burst with
triumph, “we call the Dark Lord!”

And she pushed back her sleeve and touched her
forefinger to the Dark Mark.

At once, Harry’s scar felt as though it had split open
again. His true surroundings vanished: He was
Voldemort, and the skeletal wizard before him was
laughing toothlessly at him; he was enraged at the
summons he felt — he had warned them, he had told
them to summon him for nothing less than Potter. If
they were mistaken . . .

“Kill me, then!” demanded the old man. “You will not
win, you cannot win! That wand will never, ever be
yours — ”

And Voldemort’s fury broke: A burst of green light
filled the prison room and the frail old body was lifted
from its hard bed and then fell back, lifeless, and
Voldemort returned to the window, his wrath barely
controllable. ... They would suffer his retribution if
they had no good reason for calling him back. . . .

“And I think,” said Bellatrix’s voice, “we can dispose of
the Mudblood. Greyback, take her if you want her.”

Page | 533 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“NOOOOOOOOOOOO!”



Ron had burst into the drawing room; Bellatrix looked
around, shocked; she turned her wand to face Ron
instead —

“ ExpelliarmusV’ he roared, pointing Wormtail’s wand
at Bellatrix, and hers flew into the air and was caught
by Harry, who had sprinted after Ron. Lucius,
Narcissa, Draco, and Greyback wheeled about; Harry
yelled, “Stupefy\” and Lucius Malfoy collapsed onto
the hearth. Jets of light flew from Draco’s, Narcissa’s,
and Greyback’s wands; Harry threw himself to the
floor, rolling behind a sofa to avoid them.

“STOP OR SHE DIES!”

Panting, Harry peered around the edge of the sofa.
Bellatrix was supporting Hermione, who seemed to be
unconscious, and was holding her short silver knife
to Hermione ’s throat.

“Drop your wands,” she whispered. “Drop them, or
we’ll see exactly how filthy her blood is!”

Ron stood rigid, clutching Wormtail’s wand. Harry
straightened up, still holding Bellatrix’s.

“I said, drop them!” she screeched, pressing the blade
into Hermione’s throat: Harry saw beads of blood
appear there.

“All right!” he shouted, and he dropped Bellatrix’s
wand onto the floor at his feet. Ron did the same with
Wormtail’s. Both raised their hands to shoulder
height.

“Good!” she leered. “Draco, pick them up! The Dark
Lord is coming, Harry Potter! Your death approaches!”

Page | 534 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Harry knew it; his scar was bursting with the pain of
it, and he could feel Voldemort flying through the sky
from far away, over a dark and stormy sea, and soon
he would be close enough to Apparate to them, and
Harry could see no way out.

“Now,” said Bellatrix softly, as Draco hurried back to
her with the wands, “Cissy, I think we ought to tie
these little heroes up again, while Greyback takes
care of Miss Mudblood. I am sure the Dark Lord will
not begrudge you the girl, Greyback, after what you
have done tonight.”

At the last word there was a peculiar grinding noise
from above. All of them looked upward in time to see
the crystal chandelier tremble; then, with a creak and
an ominous jingling, it began to fall. Bellatrix was
directly beneath it; dropping Hermione, she threw
herself aside with a scream. The chandelier crashed
to the floor in an explosion of crystal and chains,
falling on top of Hermione and the goblin, who still
clutched the sword of Gryffindor. Glittering shards of
crystal flew in all directions: Draco doubled over, his
hands covering his bloody face.

As Ron ran to pull Hermione out of the wreckage,
Harry took his chance: He leapt over an armchair and
wrested the three wands from Draco’s grip, pointed all
of them at Greyback, and yelled, “Stupefyl” The
werewolf was lifted off his feet by the triple spell, flew
up to the ceiling, and then smashed to the ground.

As Narcissa dragged Draco out of the way of further
harm, Bellatrix sprang to her feet, her hair flying as
she brandished the silver knife; but Narcissa had
directed her wand at the doorway.

“Dobby!” she screamed, and even Bellatrix froze.

“You! You dropped the chandelier — ?”

Page | 535 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




The tiny elf trotted into the room, his shaking finger
pointing at his old mistress.

“You must not hurt Harry Potter,” he squeaked.

“Kill him, Cissy!” shrieked Bellatrix, but there was
another loud crack, and Narcissa’s wand too flew into
the air and landed on the other side of the room.

“You dirty little monkey!” bawled Bellatrix. “How dare
you take a witch’s wand, how dare you defy your
masters?”

“Dobby has no master!” squealed the elf. “Dobby is a
free elf, and Dobby has come to save Harry Potter and
his friends!”

Harry’s scar was blinding him with pain. Dimly he
knew that they had moments, seconds before
Voldemort was with them.

“Ron, catch — and GO!” he yelled, throwing one of the
wands to him; then he bent down to tug Griphook out
from under the chandelier. Hoisting the groaning
goblin, who still clung to the sword, over one
shoulder, Harry seized Dobby’s hand and spun on the
spot to Disapparate.

As he turned into darkness he caught one last view of
the drawing room: of the pale, frozen figures of
Narcissa and Draco, of the streak of red that was
Ron’s hair, and a blur of flying silver, as Bellatrix’s
knife flew across the room at the place where he was
vanishing —

Bill and Fleur’s . . . Shell Cottage . . . Bill and Fleur’s . . .

He had disappeared into the unknown; all he could
do was repeat the name of the destination and hope

Page | 536 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




that it would suffice to take him there. The pain in his
forehead pierced him, and the weight of the goblin
bore down upon him; he could feel the blade of
Gryffindor’s sword bumping against his back; Dobby’s
hand jerked in his; he wondered whether the elf was
trying to take charge, to pull them in the right
direction, and tried, by squeezing the fingers, to
indicate that that was fine with him. ...

And then they hit solid earth and smelled salty air.
Harry fell to his knees, relinquished Dobby’s hand,
and attempted to lower Griphook gently to the
ground.

“Are you all right?” he said as the goblin stirred, but
Griphook merely whimpered.

Harry squinted around through the darkness. There
seemed to be a cottage a short way away under the
wide starry sky, and he thought he saw movement
outside it.

“Dobby, is this Shell Cottage?” he whispered,
clutching the two wands he had brought from the
Malfoys’, ready to fight if he needed to. “Have we come
to the right place? Dobby?”

He looked around. The little elf stood feet from him.
“DOBBY!”

The elf swayed slightly, stars reflected in his wide,
shining eyes. Together, he and Harry looked down at
the silver hilt of the knife protruding from the elf’s
heaving chest.

“Dobby — no — HELP!” Harry bellowed toward the
cottage, toward the people moving there. “HELP!”



Page | 537 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




He did not know or care whether they were wizards or
Muggles, friends or foes; all he cared about was that a
dark stain was spreading across Dobby’s front, and
that he had stretched out his thin arms to Harry with
a look of supplication. Harry caught him and laid him
sideways on the cool grass.

“Dobby, no, don’t die, don’t die — ”

The elf’s eyes found him, and his lips trembled with
the effort to form words.

“Harry ... Potter ...”

And then with a little shudder the elf became quite
still, and his eyes were nothing more than great
glassy orbs, sprinkled with light from the stars they
could not see.



Page | 538 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling





THE WANDMAKER

It was like sinking into an old nightmare; for an
instant Harry knelt again beside Dumbledore’s body
at the foot of the tallest tower at Hogwarts, but in
reality he was staring at a tiny body curled upon the
grass, pierced by Bellatrix’s silver knife. Harry’s voice
was still saying, “Dobby ... Dobby ...” even though he
knew that the elf had gone where he could not call
him back.

After a minute or so he realized that they had, after
all, come to the right place, for here were Bill and
Fleur, Dean and Luna, gathering around him as he
knelt over the elf.

“Hermione?” he said suddenly. “Where is she?”

“Ron’s taken her inside,” said Bill. “She’ll be all right.”

Harry looked back down at Dobby. He stretched out a
hand and pulled the sharp blade from the elf’s body,
then dragged off his own jacket and covered Dobby in
it like a blanket.

Page | 539 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling



The sea was rushing against rock somewhere nearby;
Harry listened to it while the others talked, discussing
matters in which he could take no interest, making
decisions. Dean carried the injured Griphook into the
house, Fleur hurrying with them; now Bill was
making suggestions about burying the elf. Harry
agreed without really knowing what he was saying. As
he did so, he gazed down at the tiny body, and his
scar prickled and burned, and in one part of his
mind, viewed as if from the wrong end of a long
telescope, he saw Voldemort punishing those they
had left behind at Malfoy Manor. His rage was
dreadful and yet Harry’s grief for Dobby seemed to
diminish it, so that it became a distant storm that
reached Harry from across a vast, silent ocean.

“I want to do it properly,” were the first words of
which Harry was fully conscious of speaking. “Not by
magic. Have you got a spade?”

And shortly afterward he had set to work, alone,
digging the grave in the place that Bill had shown him
at the end of the garden, between bushes. He dug
with a kind of fury, relishing the manual work,
glorying in the non-magic of it, for every drop of his
sweat and every blister felt like a gift to the elf who
had saved their lives.

His scar burned, but he was master of the pain; he
felt it, yet was apart from it. He had learned control at
last, learned to shut his mind to Voldemort, the very
thing Dumbledore had wanted him to learn from
Snape. Just as Voldemort had not been able to
possess Harry while Harry was consumed with grief
for Sirius, so his thoughts could not penetrate Harry
now, while he mourned Dobby. Grief, it seemed, drove
Voldemort out ... though Dumbledore, of course,
would have said that it was love. ...



Page | 540 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




On Harry dug, deeper and deeper into the hard, cold
earth, subsuming his grief in sweat, denying the pain
in his scar. In the darkness, with nothing but the
sound of his own breath and the rushing sea to keep
him company, the things that had happened at the
Malfoys’ returned to him, the things he had heard
came back to him, and understanding blossomed in
the darkness. ...

The steady rhythm of his arms beat time with his
thoughts. Hallows ... Horcruxes ... Hallows ...
Horcruxes ... Yet he no longer burned with that weird,
obsessive longing. Loss and fear had snuffed it out:

He felt as though he had been slapped awake again.

Deeper and deeper Harry sank into the grave, and he
knew where Voldemort had been tonight, and whom
he had killed in the topmost cell of Nurmengard, and
why. ...

And he thought of Wormtail, dead because of one
small unconscious impulse of mercy. . . . Dumbledore
had foreseen that. ... How much more had he known?

Harry lost track of time. He knew only that the
darkness had lightened a few degrees when he was
rejoined by Ron and Dean.

“How’s Hermione?”

“Better,” said Ron. “Fleur’s looking after her.”

Harry had his retort ready for when they asked him
why he had not simply created a perfect grave with
his wand, but he did not need it. They jumped down
into the hole he had made with spades of their own,
and together they worked in silence until the hole
seemed deep enough.



Page | 541 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Harry wrapped the elf more snugly in his jacket. Ron
sat on the edge of the grave and stripped off his shoes
and socks, which he placed upon the elf’s bare feet.
Dean produced a woolen hat, which Harry placed
carefully upon Dobby’s head, muffling his batlike
ears.

“We should close his eyes.”

Harry had not heard the others coming through the
darkness. Bill was wearing a traveling cloak, Fleur a
large white apron, from the pocket of which protruded
a bottle of what Harry recognized to be Skele-Gro.
Hermione was wrapped in a borrowed dressing gown,
pale and unsteady on her feet; Ron put an arm
around her when she reached him. Luna, who was
huddled in one of Fleur’s coats, crouched down and
placed her fingers tenderly upon each of the elf’s
eyelids, sliding them over his glassy stare.

“There,” she said softly. “Now he could be sleeping.”

Harry placed the elf into the grave, arranged his tiny
limbs so that he might have been resting, then
climbed out and gazed for the last time upon the little
body. He forced himself not to break down as he
remembered Dumbledore’s funeral, and the rows and
rows of golden chairs, and the Minister of Magic in
the front row, the recitation of Dumbledore’s
achievements, the stateliness of the white marble
tomb. He felt that Dobby deserved just as grand a
funeral, and yet here the elf lay between bushes in a
roughly dug hole.

“I think we ought to say something,” piped up Luna.
“I’ll go first, shall I?”

And as everybody looked at her, she addressed the
dead elf at the bottom of the grave.

Page | 542 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Thank you so much, Dobby, for rescuing me from
that cellar. It’s so unfair that you had to die, when
you were so good and brave. I’ll always remember
what you did for us. I hope you’re happy now.”

She turned and looked expectantly at Ron, who
cleared his throat and said in a thick voice, “Yeah ...
thanks, Dobby.”

“Thanks,” muttered Dean.

Harry swallowed.

“Good-bye, Dobby,” he said. It was all he could
manage, but Luna had said it all for him. Bill raised
his wand, and the pile of earth beside the grave rose
up into the air and fell neatly upon it, a small,
reddish mound.

“D’you mind if I stay here a moment?” he asked the
others.

They murmured words he did not catch; he felt gentle
pats upon his back, and then they all traipsed back
toward the cottage, leaving Harry alone beside the elf.

He looked around: There were a number of large
white stones, smoothed by the sea, marking the edge
of the flower beds. He picked up one of the largest
and laid it, pillowlike, over the place where Dobby ’s
head now rested. He then felt in his pocket for a
wand.

There were two in there. He had forgotten, lost track;
he could not now remember whose wands these were;
he seemed to remember wrenching them out of
someone’s hand. He selected the shorter of the two,
which felt friendlier in his hand, and pointed it at the
rock.

Page | 543 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Slowly, under his murmured instruction, deep cuts
appeared upon the rock’s surface. He knew that
Hermione could have done it more neatly, and
probably more quickly, but he wanted to mark the
spot as he had wanted to dig the grave. When Harry
stood up again, the stone read:

HERE LIES DOBBY, A FREE ELF.

He looked down at his handiwork for a few more
seconds, then walked away, his scar still prickling a
little, and his mind full of those things that had come
to him in the grave, ideas that had taken shape in the
darkness, ideas both fascinating and terrible.

They were all sitting in the living room when he
entered the little hall, their attention focused upon
Bill, who was talking. The room was light-colored,
pretty, with a small fire of driftwood burning brightly
in the fireplace. Harry did not want to drop mud upon
the carpet, so he stood in the doorway, listening.

"... lucky that Ginny’s on holiday. If she’d been at
Hogwarts, they could have taken her before we
reached her. Now we know she’s safe too.”

He looked around and saw Harry standing there.

“I’ve been getting them all out of the Burrow,” he
explained. “Moved them to Muriel’s. The Death Eaters
know Ron’s with you now, they’re bound to target the
family — don’t apologize,” he added at the sight of
Harry’s expression. “It was always a matter of time,
Dad’s been saying so for months. We’re the biggest
blood-traitor family there is.”

“How are they protected?” asked Harry.



Page | 544 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Fidelius Charm. Dad’s Secret-Keeper. And we’ve
done it on this cottage too; I’m Secret-Keeper here.
None of us can go to work, but that’s hardly the most
important thing now. Once Ollivander and Griphook
are well enough, we’ll move them to Muriel’s too.
There isn’t much room here, but she’s got plenty.
Griphook’s legs are on the mend, Fleur’s given him
Skele-Gro; we could probably move them in an hour



or —






“No,” Harry said, and Bill looked startled. “I need both
of them here. I need to talk to them. It’s important.”

He heard the authority in his own voice, the
conviction, the sense of purpose that had come to him
as he dug Dobby’s grave. All of their faces were
turned toward him, looking puzzled.

“I’m going to wash,” Harry told Bill, looking down at
his hands, still covered in mud and Dobby’s blood.
“Then 111 need to see them, straightaway.”

He walked into the little kitchen, to the basin beneath
a window overlooking the sea. Dawn was breaking
over the horizon, shell pink and faintly gold, as he
washed, again following the train of thought that had
come to him in the dark garden. ...

Dobby would never be able to tell them who had sent
him to the cellar, but Harry knew what he had seen.

A piercing blue eye had looked out of the mirror
fragment, and then help had come. Help will always
be given at Hog warts to those who ask for it

Harry dried his hands, impervious to the beauty of
the scene outside the window and to the murmuring
of the others in the sitting room. He looked out over
the ocean and felt closer, this dawn, than ever before,
closer to the heart of it all.

Page | 545 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




And still his scar prickled, and he knew that
Voldemort was getting there too. Harry understood
and yet did not understand. His instinct was telling
him one thing, his brain quite another. The
Dumbledore in Harry’s head smiled, surveying Harry
over the tips of his fingers, pressed together as if in
prayer.

You gave Ron the Deluminator. You understood him. . . .
You gave him a way back. . . .

And you understood Wormtail too. ... You knew there
was a bit of regret there, somewhere. ...

And if you knew them ... What did you know about
me, Dumbledore?

Am I meant to know, but not to seek? Did you know
how hard I’d find that? Is that why you made it this
difficult? So I’d have time to work that out?

Harry stood quite still, eyes glazed, watching the place
where a bright gold rim of dazzling sun was rising
over the horizon. Then he looked down at his clean
hands and was momentarily surprised to see the
cloth he was holding in them. He set it down and
returned to the hall, and as he did so, he felt his scar
pulse angrily, and there flashed across his mind, swift
as the reflection of a dragonfly over water, the outline
of a building he knew extremely well.

Bill and Fleur were standing at the foot of the stairs.

“I need to speak to Griphook and Ollivander,” Harry
said.

“No,” said Fleur. “You will ’ave to wait, ’Arry. Zey are
both ill, tired — ”



Page | 546 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“I’m sorry,” he said without heat, “but it can’t wait. I
need to talk to them now. Privately — and separately.
It’s urgent.”

“Harry, what the hell’s going on?” asked Bill. “You
turn up here with a dead house-elf and a half-
conscious goblin, Hermione looks as though she’s
been tortured, and Ron’s just refused to tell me
anything — ”

“We can’t tell you what we’re doing,” said Harry flatly.
“You’re in the Order, Bill, you know Dumbledore left
us a mission. We’re not supposed to talk about it to
anyone else.”

Fleur made an impatient noise, but Bill did not look
at her; he was staring at Harry. His deeply scarred
face was hard to read. Finally Bill said, “All right. Who
do you want to talk to first?”

Harry hesitated. He knew what hung on his decision.
There was hardly any time left; now was the moment
to decide: Horcruxes or Hallows?

“Griphook,” Harry said. “I’ll speak to Griphook first.”

His heart was racing as if he had been sprinting and
had just cleared an enormous obstacle.

“Up here, then,” said Bill, leading the way.

Harry had walked up several steps before stopping
and looking back.

“I need you two as well!” he called to Ron and
Hermione, who had been skulking, half concealed, in
the doorway of the sitting room.

They both moved into the light, looking oddly relieved.

Page | 547 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“How are you?” Harry asked Hermione. “You were
amazing — coming up with that story when she was
hurting you like that — ”

Hermione gave a weak smile as Ron gave her a one-
armed squeeze.

“What are we doing now, Harry?” he asked.

“You’ll see. Come on.”

Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed Bill up the steep
stairs onto a small landing. Three doors led off it.

“In here,” said Bill, opening the door into his and
Fleur’s room. It too had a view of the sea, now flecked
with gold in the sunrise. Harry moved to the window,
turned his back on the spectacular view, and waited,
his arms folded, his scar prickling. Hermione took the
chair beside the dressing table; Ron sat on the arm.

Bill reappeared, carrying the little goblin, whom he
set down carefully upon the bed. Griphook grunted
thanks, and Bill left, closing the door upon them all.

“I’m sorry to take you out of bed,” said Harry. “How
are your legs?”

“Painful,” replied the goblin. “But mending.”

He was still clutching the sword of Gryffindor, and
wore a strange look: half truculent, half intrigued.
Harry noted the goblin’s sallow skin, his long thin
fingers, his black eyes. Fleur had removed his shoes:
His long feet were dirty. He was larger than a house-
elf, but not by much. His domed head was much
bigger than a human’s.

“You probably don’t remember — ” Harry began.

Page | 548 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“ — that I was the goblin who showed you to your
vault, the first time you ever visited Gringotts?” said
Griphook. “I remember, Harry Potter. Even amongst
goblins, you are very famous.”

Harry and the goblin looked at each other, sizing each
other up. Harry’s scar was still prickling. He wanted
to get through this interview with Griphook quickly,
and at the same time was afraid of making a false
move. While he tried to decide on the best way to
approach his request, the goblin broke the silence.

“You buried the elf,” he said, sounding unexpectedly
rancorous. “I watched you from the window of the
bedroom next door.”

“Yes,” said Harry.

Griphook looked at him out of the corners of his
slanting black eyes.

“You are an unusual wizard, Harry Potter.”

“In what way?” asked Harry, rubbing his scar
absently.

“You dug the grave.”

“So?”

Griphook did not answer. Harry rather thought he
was being sneered at for acting like a Muggle, but it
did not much matter to him whether Griphook
approved of Dobby’s grave or not. He gathered himself
for the attack.

“Griphook, I need to ask — ”

“You also rescued a goblin.”

Page | 549 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“What?”



“You brought me here. Saved me.”

“Well, I take it you’re not sorry?” said Harry a little
impatiently.

“No, Harry Potter,” said Griphook, and with one finger
he twisted the thin black beard upon his chin, “but
you are a very odd wizard.”

“Right,” said Harry. “Well, I need some help,

Griphook, and you can give it to me.”

The goblin made no sign of encouragement, but
continued to frown at Harry as though he had never
seen anything like him.

“I need to break into a Gringotts vault.”

Harry had not meant to say it so baldly; the words
were forced from him as pain shot through his
lightning scar and he saw, again, the outline of
Hogwarts. He closed his mind firmly. He needed to
deal with Griphook first. Ron and Hermione were
staring at Harry as though he had gone mad.

“Harry — ” said Hermione, but she was cut off by
Griphook.

“Break into a Gringotts vault?” repeated the goblin,
wincing a little as he shifted his position upon the
bed. “It is impossible.”

“No, it isn’t,” Ron contradicted him. “It’s been done.”

“Yeah,” said Harry. “The same day I first met you,
Griphook. My birthday, seven years ago.”



Page | 550 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“The vault in question was empty at the time,”
snapped the goblin, and Harry understood that even
though Griphook had left Gringotts, he was offended
at the idea of its defenses being breached. “Its
protection was minimal.”

“Well, the vault we need to get into isn’t empty, and
I’m guessing its protection will be pretty powerful,”
said Harry. “It belongs to the Lestranges.”

He saw Hermione and Ron look at each other,
astonished, but there would be time enough to
explain after Griphook had given his answer.

“You have no chance,” said Griphook flatly. “No
chance at all. If you seek beneath our floors, a
treasure that was never yours — ”

“Thief you have been warned, beware — yeah, I
know, I remember,” said Harry. “But I’m not trying to
get myself any treasure, I’m not trying to take
anything for personal gain. Can you believe that?”

The goblin looked slantwise at Harry, and the
lightning scar on Harry’s forehead prickled, but he
ignored it, refusing to acknowledge its pain or its
invitation.

“If there was a wizard of whom I would believe that
they did not seek personal gain,” said Griphook
finally, “it would be you, Harry Potter. Goblins and
elves are not used to the protection or the respect
that you have shown this night. Not from wand-
carriers.”

“Wand-carriers,” repeated Harry: The phrase fell oddly
upon his ears as his scar prickled, as Voldemort
turned his thoughts northward, and as Harry burned
to question Ollivander next door.

Page | 551 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“The right to carry a wand,” said the goblin quietly,
“has long been contested between wizards and
goblins.”

“Well, goblins can do magic without wands,” said
Ron.

“That is immaterial! Wizards refuse to share the
secrets of wand-lore with other magical beings, they
deny us the possibility of extending our powers!”

“Well, goblins won’t share any of their magic either,”
said Ron. “You won’t tell us how to make swords and
armor the way you do. Goblins know how to work
metal in a way wizards have never — ”

“It doesn’t matter,” said Harry, noting Griphook’s
rising color. “This isn’t about wizards versus goblins
or any other sort of magical creature — ”

Griphook gave a nasty laugh.

“But it is, it is about precisely that! As the Dark Lord
becomes ever more powerful, your race is set still
more firmly above mine! Gringotts falls under
Wizarding rule, house-elves are slaughtered, and who
amongst the wand-carriers protests?”

“We do!” said Hermione. She had sat up straight, her
eyes bright. “We protest! And I’m hunted quite as
much as any goblin or elf, Griphook! I’m a Mudblood!”

“Don’t call yourself — ” Ron muttered.

“Why shouldn’t I?” said Hermione. “Mudblood, and
proud of it! I’ve got no higher position under this new
order than you have, Griphook! It was me they chose
to torture, back at the Malfoys’!”



Page | 552 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




As she spoke, she pulled aside the neck of the
dressing gown to reveal the thin cut Bellatrix had
made, scarlet against her throat.

“Did you know that it was Harry who set Dobby free?”
she asked. “Did you know that we’ve wanted elves to
be freed for years?” (Ron fidgeted uncomfortably on
the arm of Hermione’s chair.) “You can’t want You-
Know-Who defeated more than we do, Griphook!”

The goblin gazed at Hermione with the same curiosity
he had shown Harry.

“What do you seek within the Lestranges’ vault?” he
asked abruptly. “The sword that lies inside it is a
fake. This is the real one.” He looked from one to the
other of them. “I think that you already know this.

You asked me to lie for you back there.”

“But the fake sword isn’t the only thing in that vault,
is it?” asked Harry. “Perhaps you’ve seen the other
things in there?”

His heart was pounding harder than ever. He
redoubled his efforts to ignore the pulsing of his scar.

The goblin twisted his beard around his finger again.

“It is against our code to speak of the secrets of
Gringotts. We are the guardians of fabulous
treasures. We have a duty to the objects placed in our
care, which were, so often, wrought by our fingers.”

The goblin stroked the sword, and his black eyes
roved from Harry to Hermione to Ron and then back
again.

“So young,” he said finally, “to be fighting so many.”



Page | 553 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Will you help us?” said Harry. “We haven’t got a hope
of breaking in without a goblin’s help. You’re our one
chance.”

“I shall ... think about it,” said Griphook
maddeningly.

“But — ” Ron started angrily; Hermione nudged him in
the ribs.

“Thank you,” said Harry.

The goblin bowed his great domed head in
acknowledgement, then flexed his short legs.

“I think,” he said, settling himself ostentatiously upon
Bill and Fleur’s bed, “that the Skele-Gro has finished
its work. I may be able to sleep at last. Forgive me. ...”

“Yeah, of course,” said Harry, but before leaving the
room he leaned forward and took the sword of
Gryffindor from beside the goblin. Griphook did not
protest, but Harry thought he saw resentment in the
goblin’s eyes as he closed the door upon him.

“Little git,” whispered Ron. “He’s enjoying keeping us
hanging.”

“Harry,” whispered Hermione, pulling them both away
from the door, into the middle of the still-dark
landing, “are you saying what I think you’re saying?
Are you saying there’s a Horcrux in the Lestranges’
vault?”

“Yes,” said Harry. “Bellatrix was terrified when she
thought we’d been in there, she was beside herself.
Why? What did she think we’d seen, what else did she
think we might have taken? Something she was
petrified You-Know-Who would find out about.”

Page | 554 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“But I thought we were looking for places You-Know-
Who’s been, places he’s done something important?”
said Ron, looking baffled. “Was he ever inside the
Lestranges’ vault?”

“I don’t know whether he was ever inside Gringotts,”
said Harry. “He never had gold there when he was
younger, because nobody left him anything. He would
have seen the bank from the outside, though, the first
time he ever went to Diagon Alley.”

Harry’s scar throbbed, but he ignored it; he wanted
Ron and Hermione to understand about Gringotts
before they spoke to Ollivander.

“I think he would have envied anyone who had a key
to a Gringotts vault. I think he’d have seen it as a real
symbol of belonging to the Wizarding world. And don’t
forget, he trusted Bellatrix and her husband. They
were his most devoted servants before he fell, and
they went looking for him after he vanished. He said it
the night he came back, I heard him.”

Harry rubbed his scar.

“I don’t think he’d have told Bellatrix it was a
Horcrux, though. He never told Lucius Malfoy the
truth about the diary. He probably told her it was a
treasured possession and asked her to place it in her
vault. The safest place in the world for anything you
want to hide, Hagrid told me ... except for Hogwarts.”

When Harry had finished speaking, Ron shook his
head.

“You really understand him.”



Page | 555 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Bits of him,” said Harry. “Bits ... I just wish I’d
understood Dumbledore as much. But well see.

Come on — Ollivander now.”

Ron and Hermione looked bewildered but impressed
as they followed him across the little landing and
knocked upon the door opposite Bill and Fleur’s. A
weak “Come in!” answered them.

The wandmaker was lying on the twin bed farthest
from the window. He had been held in the cellar for
more than a year, and tortured, Harry knew, on at
least one occasion. He was emaciated, the bones of
his face sticking out sharply against the yellowish
skin. His great silver eyes seemed vast in their
sunken sockets. The hands that lay upon the blanket
could have belonged to a skeleton. Harry sat down on
the empty bed, beside Ron and Hermione. The rising
sun was not visible here. The room faced the cliff- top
garden and the freshly dug grave.

“Mr. Ollivander, I’m sorry to disturb you,” Harry said.

“My dear boy.” Ollivander’s voice was feeble. “You
rescued us. I thought we would die in that place. I
can never thank you ... never thank you ... enough.”

“We were glad to do it.”

Harry’s scar throbbed. He knew, he was certain, that
there was hardly any time left in which to beat
Voldemort to his goal, or else to attempt to thwart
him. He felt a flutter of panic ... yet he had made his
decision when he chose to speak to Griphook first.
Feigning a calm he did not feel, he groped in the
pouch around his neck and took out the two halves of
his broken wand.

“Mr. Ollivander, I need some help.”

Page | 556 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Anything. Anything,” said the wandmaker weakly.

“Can you mend this? Is it possible?”

Ollivander held out a trembling hand, and Harry
placed the two barely connected halves into his palm.

“Holly and phoenix feather,” said Ollivander in a
tremulous voice. “Eleven inches. Nice and supple.”

“Yes,” said Harry. “Can you — ?”

“No,” whispered Ollivander. “I am sorry, very sorry,
but a wand that has suffered this degree of damage
cannot be repaired by any means that I know of.”

Harry had been braced to hear it, but it was a blow
nevertheless. He took the wand halves back and
replaced them in the pouch around his neck.
Ollivander stared at the place where the shattered
wand had vanished, and did not look away until
Harry had taken from his pocket the two wands he
had brought from the Malfoys’.

“Can you identify these?” Harry asked.

The wandmaker took the first of the wands and held
it close to his faded eyes, rolling it between his
knobble-knuckled fingers, flexing it slightly.

“Walnut and dragon heartstring,” he said. “Twelve-
and-three-quarter inches. Unyielding. This wand
belonged to Bellatrix Lestrange.”

“And this one?”

Ollivander performed the same examination.



Page | 557 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Hawthorn and unicorn hair. Ten inches precisely.
Reasonably springy. This was the wand of Draco
Malfoy.”



“Was?” repeated Harry. “Isn’t it still his?”
“Perhaps not. If you took it — ”

“— I did — ”



“ — then it may be yours. Of course, the manner of
taking matters. Much also depends upon the wand
itself. In general, however, where a wand has been
won, its allegiance will change.”

There was silence in the room, except for the distant
rushing of the sea.

“You talk about wands like they’ve got feelings,” said
Harry, “like they can think for themselves.”

“The wand chooses the wizard,” said Ollivander. “That
much has always been clear to those of us who have
studied wandlore.”

“A person can still use a wand that hasn’t chosen
them, though?” asked Harry.

“Oh yes, if you are any wizard at all you will be able to
channel your magic through almost any instrument.
The best results, however, must always come where
there is the strongest affinity between wizard and
wand. These connections are complex. An initial
attraction, and then a mutual quest for experience,
the wand learning from the wizard, the wizard from
the wand.”

The sea gushed forward and backward; it was a
mournful sound.

Page | 558 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“I took this wand from Draco Malfoy by force,” said
Harry. “Can I use it safely?”

“I think so. Subtle laws govern wand ownership, but
the conquered wand will usually bend its will to its
new master.”

“So I should use this one?” said Ron, pulling
Wormtail’s wand out of his pocket and handing it to
Ollivander.

“Chestnut and dragon heartstring. Nine-and-a-
quarter inches. Brittle. I was forced to make this
shortly after my kidnapping, for Peter Pettigrew. Yes,
if you won it, it is more likely to do your bidding, and
do it well, than another wand.”

“And this holds true for all wands, does it?” asked
Harry.

“I think so,” replied Ollivander, his protuberant eyes
upon Harry’s face. “You ask deep questions, Mr.

Potter. Wandlore is a complex and mysterious branch
of magic.”

“So, it isn’t necessary to kill the previous owner to
take true possession of a wand?” asked Harry.

Ollivander swallowed.

“Necessary? No, I should not say that it is necessary
to kill.”

“There are legends, though,” said Harry, and as his
heart rate quickened, the pain in his scar became
more intense; he was sure that Voldemort had
decided to put his idea into action. “Legends about a
wand — or wands — that have passed from hand to
hand by murder.”

Page | 559 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Ollivander turned pale. Against the snowy pillow he
was light gray, and his eyes were enormous,
bloodshot, and bulging with what looked like fear.

“Only one wand, I think,” he whispered.

“And You-Know-Who is interested in it, isn’t he?”
asked Harry.

“I — how?” croaked Ollivander, and he looked
appealingly at Ron and Hermione for help. “How do
you know this?”

“He wanted you to tell him how to overcome the
connection between our wands,” said Harry.

Ollivander looked terrified.

“He tortured me, you must understand that! The
Cruciatus Curse, I — I had no choice but to tell him
what I knew, what I guessed!”

“I understand,” said Harry. “You told him about the
twin cores? You said he just had to borrow another
wizard’s wand?”

Ollivander looked horrified, transfixed, by the amount
that Harry knew. He nodded slowly.

“But it didn’t work,” Harry went on. “Mine still beat
the borrowed wand. Do you know why that is?”

Ollivander shook his head as slowly as he had just
nodded.

“I had ... never heard of such a thing. Your wand
performed something unique that night. The
connection of the twin cores is incredibly rare, yet



Page | 560 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




why your wand should have snapped the borrowed
wand, I do not know. ...”

“We were talking about the other wand, the wand that
changes hands by murder. When You-Know-Who
realized my wand had done something strange, he
came back and asked about that other wand, didn’t
he?”

“How do you know this?”

Harry did not answer.

“Yes, he asked,” whispered Ollivander. “He wanted to
know everything I could tell him about the wand
variously known as the Deathstick, the Wand of
Destiny, or the Elder Wand.”

Harry glanced sideways at Hermione. She looked
flabbergasted.

“The Dark Lord,” said Ollivander in hushed and
frightened tones, “had always been happy with the
wand I made him — yew and phoenix feather,
thirteen-and-a-half inches — until he discovered the
connection of the twin cores. Now he seeks another,
more powerful wand, as the only way to conquer
yours.”

“But he’ll know soon, if he doesn’t already, that
mine’s broken beyond repair,” said Harry quietly.

“No!” said Hermione, sounding frightened. “He can’t
know that, Harry, how could he — ?”

“Priori Incantatem,” said Harry. “We left your wand
and the blackthorn wand at the Malfoys’, Hermione. If
they examine them properly, make them re-create the
spells they’ve cast lately, they’ll see that yours broke

Page | 561 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




mine, they’ll see that you tried and failed to mend it,
and they’ll realize that I’ve been using the blackthorn
one ever since.”

The little color she had regained since their arrival
had drained from her face. Ron gave Harry a
reproachful look, and said, “Let’s not worry about
that now — ”

But Mr. Ollivander intervened.

“The Dark Lord no longer seeks the Elder Wand only
for your destruction, Mr. Potter. He is determined to
possess it because he believes it will make him truly
invulnerable.”

“And will it?”

“The owner of the Elder Wand must always fear
attack,” said Ollivander, “but the idea of the Dark
Lord in possession of the Deathstick is, I must admit
... formidable.”

Harry was suddenly reminded of how he had been
unsure, when they first met, of how much he liked
Ollivander. Even now, having been tortured and
imprisoned by Voldemort, the idea of the Dark wizard
in possession of this wand seemed to enthrall him as
much as it repulsed him.

“You — you really think this wand exists, then, Mr.
Ollivander?” asked Hermione.

“Oh yes,” said Ollivander. “Yes, it is perfectly possible
to trace the wand’s course through history. There are
gaps, of course, and long ones, where it vanishes from
view, temporarily lost or hidden; but always it
resurfaces. It has certain identifying characteristics
that those who are learned in wandlore recognize.
Page | 562 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




There are written accounts, some of them obscure,
that I and other wandmakers have made it our
business to study. They have the ring of authenticity.”

“So you — you don’t think it can be a fairy tale or a
myth?” Hermione asked hopefully.

“No,” said Ollivander. “Whether it needs to pass by
murder, I do not know. Its history is bloody, but that
may be simply due to the fact that it is such a
desirable object, and arouses such passions in
wizards. Immensely powerful, dangerous in the wrong
hands, and an object of incredible fascination to all of
us who study the power of wands.”

“Mr. Ollivander,” said Harry, “you told You-Know-Who
that Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand, didn’t you?”

Ollivander turned, if possible, even paler. He looked
ghostly as he gulped.

“But how — how do you — ?”

“Never mind how I know it,” said Harry, closing his
eyes momentarily as his scar burned and he saw, for
mere seconds, a vision of the main street in
Hogsmeade, still dark, because it was so much
farther north. “You told You-Know-Who that
Gregorovitch had the wand?”

“It was a rumor,” whispered Ollivander. “A rumor,
years and years ago, long before you were born! I
believe Gregorovitch himself started it. You can see
how good it would be for business: that he was
studying and duplicating the qualities of the Elder
Wand!”

“Yes, I can see that,” said Harry. He stood up. “Mr.
Ollivander, one last thing, and then we’ll let you get

Page | 563 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




some rest. What do you know about the Deathly
Hallows?”



“The — the what?” asked the wandmaker, looking
utterly bewildered.

“The Deathly Hallows.”

“I’m afraid I don’t know what you’re talking about. Is
this still something to do with wands?”

Harry looked into the sunken face and believed that
Ollivander was not acting. He did not know about the
Hallows.

“Thank you,” said Harry. “Thank you very much. We’ll
leave you to get some rest now.”

Ollivander looked stricken.

“He was torturing me!” he gasped. “The Cruciatus
Curse ... you have no idea. ...”

“I do,” said Harry. “I really do. Please get some rest.
Thank you for telling me all of this.”

He led Ron and Hermione down the staircase. Harry
caught a glimpse of Bill, Fleur, Luna, and Dean
sitting at the table in the kitchen, cups of tea in front
of them. They all looked up at Harry as he appeared
in the doorway, but he merely nodded to them and
continued into the garden, Ron and Hermione behind
him. The reddish mound of earth that covered Dobby
lay ahead, and Harry walked back to it, as the pain in
his head built more and more powerfully. It was a
huge effort now to close down the visions that were
forcing themselves upon him, but he knew that he
would have to resist only a little longer. He would
yield very soon, because he needed to know that his
Page | 564 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




theory was right. He must make only one more short
effort, so that he could explain to Ron and Hermione.

“Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand a long time ago,”
he said. “I saw You-Know-Who trying to find him.
When he tracked him down, he found that
Gregorovitch didn’t have it anymore: It was stolen
from him by Grindelwald. How Grindelwald found out
that Gregorovitch had it, I don’t know — but if
Gregorovitch was stupid enough to spread the rumor,
it can’t have been that difficult.”

Voldemort was at the gates of Hogwarts; Harry could
see him standing there, and see too the lamp bobbing
in the pre-dawn, coming closer and closer.

“And Grindelwald used the Elder Wand to become
powerful. And at the height of his power, when
Dumbledore knew he was the only one who could
stop him, he dueled Grindelwald and beat him, and
he took the Elder Wand.”

“Dumbledore had the Elder Wand?” said Ron. “But
then — where is it now?”

“At Hogwarts,” said Harry, fighting to remain with
them in the cliff-top garden.

“But then, let’s go!” said Ron urgently. “Harry, let’s go
and get it before he does!”

“It’s too late for that,” said Harry. He could not help
himself, but clutched his head, trying to help it resist.
“He knows where it is. He’s there now.”

“Harry!” Ron said furiously. “How long have you
known this — why have we been wasting time? Why
did you talk to Griphook first? We could have gone —
we could still go — ”

Page | 565 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“No,” said Harry, and he sank to his knees in the
grass. “Hermione’s right. Dumbledore didn’t want me
to have it. He didn’t want me to take it. He wanted me
to get the Horcruxes.”

“The unbeatable wand, Harry!” moaned Ron.

“I’m not supposed to ... I’m supposed to get the
Horcruxes. ...”

And now everything was cool and dark: The sun was
barely visible over the horizon as he glided alongside
Snape, up through the grounds toward the lake.

“I shall join you in the castle shortly,” he said in his
high, cold voice. “Leave me now.”

Snape bowed and set off back up the path, his black
cloak billowing behind him. Harry walked slowly,
waiting for Snape ’s figure to disappear. It would not
do for Snape, or indeed anyone else, to see where he
was going. But there were no lights in the castle
windows, and he could conceal himself ... and in a
second he had cast upon himself a Disillusionment
Charm that hid him even from his own eyes.

And he walked on, around the edge of the lake, taking
in the outlines of the beloved castle, his first kingdom,
his birthright. ...

And here it was, beside the lake, reflected in the dark
waters. The white marble tomb, an unnecessary blot
on the familiar landscape. He felt again that rush of
controlled euphoria, that heady sense of purpose in
destruction. He raised the old yew wand: How fitting
that this would be its last great act.



Page | 566 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




The tomb split open from head to foot. The shrouded
figure was as long and thin as it had been in life. He
raised the wand again.

The wrappings fell open. The face was translucent,
pale, sunken, yet almost perfectly preserved. They
had left his spectacles on the crooked nose: He felt
amused derision. Dumbledore’s hands were folded
upon his chest, and there it lay, clutched beneath
them, buried with him.

Had the old fool imagined that marble or death would
protect the wand? Had he thought that the Dark Lord
would be scared to violate his tomb? The spiderlike
hand swooped and pulled the wand from
Dumbledore’s grasp, and as he took it, a shower of
sparks flew from its tip, sparkling over the corpse of
its last owner, ready to serve a new master at last.



Page | 567 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling






SHELL COTTAGE

Bill and Fleur’s cottage stood alone on a cliff
overlooking the sea, its walls embedded with shells
and whitewashed. It was a lonely and beautiful place.
Wherever Harry went inside the tiny cottage or its
garden, he could hear the constant ebb and flow of
the sea, like the breathing of some great, slumbering
creature. He spent much of the next few days making
excuses to escape the crowded cottage, craving the
cliff-top view of open sky and wide, empty sea, and
the feel of cold, salty wind on his face.

The enormity of his decision not to race Voldemort to
the wand still scared Harry. He could not remember,
ever before, choosing not to act. He was full of doubts,
doubts that Ron could not help voicing whenever they
were together.

“What if Dumbledore wanted us to work out the
symbol in time to get the wand?” “What if working out
what the symbol meant made you ‘worthy’ to get the
Hallows?” “Harry, if that really is the Elder Wand,
how the hell are we supposed to finish off You-Know-

P a g e | 568 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling



Who?” Harry had no answers: There were moments
when he wondered whether it had been outright
madness not to try to prevent Voldemort breaking
open the tomb. He could not even explain
satisfactorily why he had decided against it: Every
time he tried to reconstruct the internal arguments
that had led to his decision, they sounded feebler to
him.

The odd thing was that Hermione’s support made him
feel just as confused as Ron’s doubts. Now forced to
accept that the Elder Wand was real, she maintained
that it was an evil object, and that the way Voldemort
had taken possession of it was repellent, not to be
considered.

“You could never have done that, Harry,” she said
again and again. “You couldn’t have broken into
Dumbledore’s grave.”

But the idea of Dumbledore’s corpse frightened Harry
much less than the possibility that he might have
misunderstood the living Dumbledore’s intentions. He
felt that he was still groping in the dark; he had
chosen his path but kept looking back, wondering
whether he had misread the signs, whether he should
not have taken the other way. From time to time,
anger at Dumbledore crashed over him again,
powerful as the waves slamming themselves against
the cliff beneath the cottage, anger that Dumbledore
had not explained before he died.

“But is he dead?” said Ron, three days after they had
arrived at the cottage. Harry had been staring out
over the wall that separated the cottage garden from
the cliff when Ron and Hermione had found him; he
wished they had not, having no wish to join in with
their argument.



Page | 569 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Yes, he is, Ron, please don’t start that again!”

“Look at the facts, Hermione,” said Ron, speaking
across Harry, who continued to gaze at the horizon.
“The silver doe. The sword. The eye Harry saw in the
mirror — ”

“Harry admits he could have imagined the eye! Don’t
you, Harry?”

“I could have,” said Harry without looking at her.

“But you don’t think you did, do you?” asked Ron.

“No, I don’t,” said Harry.

“There you go!” said Ron quickly, before Hermione
could carry on. “If it wasn’t Dumbledore, explain how
Dobby knew we were in the cellar, Hermione?”

“I can’t — but can you explain how Dumbledore sent
him to us if he’s lying in a tomb at Hogwarts?”

“I dunno, it could’ve been his ghost!”

“Dumbledore wouldn’t come back as a ghost,” said
Harry. There was little about Dumbledore he was sure
of now, but he knew that much. “He would have gone
on.”

“What d’you mean, ‘gone on’?” asked Ron, but before
Harry could say any more, a voice behind them said, “
’Arry?”

Fleur had come out of the cottage, her long silver hair
flying in the breeze.



Page | 570 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“ ’Arry, Grip’ook would like to speak to you. ’E eez in
ze smallest bedroom, ’e says ’e does not want to be
over’eard.”

Her dislike of the goblin sending her to deliver
messages was clear; she looked irritable as she
walked back around the house.

Griphook was waiting for them, as Fleur had said, in
the tiniest of the cottage’s three bedrooms, in which
Hermione and Luna slept by night. He had drawn the
red cotton curtains against the bright, cloudy sky,
which gave the room a fiery glow at odds with the rest
of the airy, light cottage.

“I have reached my decision, Harry Potter,” said the
goblin, who was sitting cross-legged in a low chair,
drumming its arms with his spindly fingers. “Though
the goblins of Gringotts will consider it base
treachery, I have decided to help you — ”

“That’s great!” said Harry, relief surging through him.
“Griphook, thank you, we’re really — ”

“ — in return,” said the goblin firmly, “for payment.”

Slightly taken aback, Harry hesitated.

“How much do you want? I’ve got gold.”

“Not gold,” said Griphook. “I have gold.”

His black eyes glittered; there were no whites to his
eyes.

“I want the sword. The sword of Godric Gryffindor.”
Harry’s spirits plummeted.



Page | 571 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“You can’t have that,” he said. “I’m sorry.”

“Then,” said the goblin softly, “we have a problem.”

“We can give you something else,” said Ron eagerly.
“I’ll bet the Lestranges have got loads of stuff, you can
take your pick once we get into the vault.”

He had said the wrong thing. Griphook flushed
angrily.

“I am not a thief, boy! I am not trying to procure
treasures to which I have no right!”

“The sword’s ours — ”

“It is not,” said the goblin.

“We’re Gryffindors, and it was Godric Gryffindor’s — ”

“And before it was Gryffindor’s, whose was it?”
demanded the goblin, sitting up straight.

“No one’s,” said Ron. “It was made for him, wasn’t it?”

“No!” cried the goblin, bristling with anger as he
pointed a long finger at Ron. “Wizarding arrogance
again! That sword was Ragnuk the First’s, taken from
him by Godric Gryffindor! It is a lost treasure, a
masterpiece of goblinwork! It belongs with the
goblins! The sword is the price of my hire, take it or
leave it!”

Griphook glared at them. Harry glanced at the other
two, then said, “We need to discuss this, Griphook, if
that’s all right. Could you give us a few minutes?”

The goblin nodded, looking sour.



Page | 572 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Downstairs in the empty sitting room, Harry walked
to the fireplace, brow furrowed, trying to think what
to do. Behind him, Ron said, “He’s having a laugh. We
can’t let him have that sword.”

“It is true?” Harry asked Hermione. “Was the sword
stolen by Gryffindor?”

“I don’t know,” she said hopelessly. “Wizarding history
often skates over what the wizards have done to other
magical races, but there’s no account that I know of
that says Gryffindor stole the sword.”

“It’ll be one of those goblin stories,” said Ron, “about
how the wizards are always trying to get one over on
them. I suppose we should think ourselves lucky he
hasn’t asked for one of our wands.”

“Goblins have got good reason to dislike wizards,

Ron,” said Hermione. “They’ve been treated brutally in
the past.”

“Goblins aren’t exactly fluffy little bunnies, though,
are they?” said Ron. “They’ve killed plenty of us.
They’ve fought dirty too.”

“But arguing with Griphook about whose race is most
underhanded and violent isn’t going to make him
more likely to help us, is it?”

There was a pause while they tried to think of a way
around the problem. Harry looked out of the window
at Dobby’s grave. Luna was arranging sea lavender in
a jam jar beside the headstone.

“Okay,” said Ron, and Harry turned back to face him,
“how’s this? We tell Griphook we need the sword until
we get inside the vault, and then he can have it.



Page | 573 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




There’s a fake in there, isn’t there? We switch them,
and give him the fake.”

“Ron, he’d know the difference better than we would!”
said Hermione. “He’s the only one who realized there
had been a swap!”

“Yeah, but we could scarper before he realizes — ”

He quailed beneath the look Hermione was giving
him.

“That,” she said quietly, “is despicable. Ask for his
help, then double-cross him? And you wonder why
goblins don’t like wizards, Ron?”

Ron’s ears had turned red.

“All right, all right! It was the only thing I could think
of! What’s your solution, then?”

“We need to offer him something else, something just
as valuable.”

“Brilliant. I’ll go and get one of our other ancient
goblin-made swords and you can gift wrap it.”

Silence fell between them again. Harry was sure that
the goblin would accept nothing but the sword, even
if they had something as valuable to offer him. Yet the
sword was their one, indispensable weapon against
the Horcruxes.

He closed his eyes for a moment or two and listened
to the rush of the sea. The idea that Gryffindor might
have stolen the sword was unpleasant to him: He had
always been proud to be a Gryffindor; Gryffindor had
been the champion of Muggle-borns, the wizard who
had clashed with the pureblood-loving Slytherin. ...
Page | 574 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Maybe he’s lying,” Harry said, opening his eyes
again. “Griphook. Maybe Gryffindor didn’t take the
sword. How do we know the goblin version of history’s
right?”

“Does it make a difference?” asked Hermione.
“Changes how I feel about it,” said Harry.

He took a deep breath.

“Well tell him he can have the sword after he’s helped
us get into that vault — but we’ll be careful to avoid
telling him exactly when he can have it.”

A grin spread slowly across Ron’s face. Hermione,
however, looked alarmed.

“Harry, we can’t — ”

“He can have it,” Harry went on, “after we’ve used it
on all of the Horcruxes. I’ll make sure he gets it then.
I’ll keep my word.”

“But that could be years!” said Hermione.

“I know that, but he needn’t. I won’t be lying ...
really.”

Harry met her eyes with a mixture of defiance and
shame. He remembered the words that had been
engraved over the gateway to Nurmengard: FOR THE
GREATER GOOD. He pushed the idea away. What
choice did they have?

“I don’t like it,” said Hermione.

“Nor do I, much,” Harry admitted.



Page | 575 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Well, I think it’s genius,” said Ron, standing up
again. “Let’s go and tell him.”



Back in the smallest bedroom, Harry made the offer,
careful to phrase it so as not to give any definite time
for the handover of the sword. Hermione frowned at
the floor while he was speaking; he felt irritated at
her, afraid that she might give the game away.
However, Griphook had eyes for nobody but Harry.

“I have your word, Harry Potter, that you will give me
the sword of Gryffindor if I help you?”

“Yes,” said Harry.

“Then shake,” said the goblin, holding out his hand.

Harry took it and shook. He wondered whether those
black eyes saw any misgivings in his own. Then
Griphook relinquished him, clapped his hands
together, and said, “So. We begin!”

It was like planning to break into the Ministry all over
again. They settled to work in the smallest bedroom,
which was kept, according to Griphook’s preference,
in semidarkness.

“I have visited the Lestranges’ vault only once,”
Griphook told them, “on the occasion I was told to
place inside it the false sword. It is one of the most
ancient chambers. The oldest Wizarding families store
their treasures at the deepest level, where the vaults
are largest and best protected. ...”

They remained shut in the cupboardlike room for
hours at a time. Slowly the days stretched into weeks.
There was problem after problem to overcome, not
least of which was that their store of Polyjuice Potion
was greatly depleted.

Page | 576 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“There’s really only enough left for one of us,” said
Hermione, tilting the thick mudlike potion against the
lamplight.

“That’ll be enough,” said Harry, who was examining
Griphook’s hand-drawn map of the deepest
passageways.

The other inhabitants of Shell Cottage could hardly
fail to notice that something was going on now that
Harry, Ron, and Hermione only emerged for
mealtimes. Nobody asked questions, although Harry
often felt Bill’s eyes on the three of them at the table,
thoughtful, concerned.

The longer they spent together, the more Harry
realized that he did not much like the goblin.
Griphook was unexpectedly bloodthirsty, laughed at
the idea of pain in lesser creatures, and seemed to
relish the possibility that they might have to hurt
other wizards to reach the Lestranges’ vault. Harry
could tell that his distaste was shared by the other
two, but they did not discuss it: They needed
Griphook.

The goblin ate only grudgingly with the rest of them.
Even after his legs had mended, he continued to
request trays of food in his room, like the still-frail
Ollivander, until Bill (following an angry outburst
from Fleur) went upstairs to tell him that the
arrangement could not continue. Thereafter Griphook
joined them at the overcrowded table, although he
refused to eat the same food, insisting, instead, on
lumps of raw meat, roots, and various fungi.

Harry felt responsible: It was, after all, he who had
insisted that the goblin remain at Shell Cottage so
that he could question him; his fault that the whole



Page | 577 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




Weasley family had been driven into hiding, that Bill,
Fred, George, and Mr. Weasley could no longer work.

“I’m sorry,” he told Fleur, one blustery April evening
as he helped her prepare dinner. “I never meant you
to have to deal with all of this.”

She had just set some knives to work, chopping up
steaks for Griphook and Bill, who had preferred his
meat bloody ever since he had been attacked by
Greyback. While the knives sliced away behind her,
her somewhat irritable expression softened.

“ ’Arry, you saved my sister’s life, I do not forget.”

This was not, strictly speaking, true, but Harry
decided against reminding her that Gabrielle had
never been in real danger.

“Anyway,” Fleur went on, pointing her wand at a pot
of sauce on the stove, which began to bubble at once,
“Mr. Ollivander leaves for Muriel’s zis evening. Zat will
make zings easier. Ze goblin,” she scowled a little at
the mention of him, “can move downstairs, and you,
Ron, and Dean can take zat room.”

“We don’t mind sleeping in the living room,” said
Harry, who knew that Griphook would think poorly of
having to sleep on the sofa; keeping Griphook happy
was essential to their plans. “Don’t worry about us.”
And when she tried to protest he went on, “We’ll be off
your hands soon too, Ron, Hermione, and I. We won’t
need to be here much longer.”

“But what do you mean?” she said, frowning at him,
her wand pointing at the casserole dish now
suspended in midair. “Of course you must not leave,
you are safe ’ere!”



Page | 578 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




She looked rather like Mrs. Weasley as she said it,
and he was glad that the back door opened at that
moment. Luna and Dean entered, their hair damp
from the rain outside and their arms full of driftwood.

"... and tiny little ears,” Luna was saying, “a bit like a
hippo’s, Daddy says, only purple and hairy. And if
you want to call them, you have to hum; they prefer a
waltz, nothing too fast. ...”

Looking uncomfortable, Dean shrugged at Harry as
he passed, following Luna into the combined dining
and sitting room where Ron and Hermione were
laying the dinner table. Seizing the chance to escape
Fleur’s questions, Harry grabbed two jugs of pumpkin
juice and followed them.

"... and if you ever come to our house I’ll be able to
show you the horn, Daddy wrote to me about it but I
haven’t seen it yet, because the Death Eaters took me
from the Hogwarts Express and I never got home for
Christmas,” Luna was saying, as she and Dean relaid
the fire.

“Luna, we told you,” Hermione called over to her.
“That horn exploded. It came from an Erumpent, not
a Crumple-Horned Snorkack — ”

“No, it was definitely a Snorkack horn,” said Luna
serenely. “Daddy told me. It will probably have re-
formed by now, they mend themselves, you know.”

Hermione shook her head and continued laying down
forks as Bill appeared, leading Mr. Ollivander down
the stairs. The wandmaker still looked exceptionally
frail, and he clung to Bill’s arm as the latter
supported him, carrying a large suitcase.



Page | 579 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




‘Tm going to miss you, Mr. Ollivander,” said Luna,
approaching the old man.

“And I you, my dear,” said Ollivander, patting her on
the shoulder. “You were an inexpressible comfort to
me in that terrible place.”

“So, au revoir, Mr. Ollivander,” said Fleur, kissing him
on both cheeks. “And I wonder whezzer you could
oblige me by delivering a package to Bill’s Auntie
Muriel? I never returned ’er tiara.”

“It will be an honor,” said Ollivander with a little bow,
“the very least I can do in return for your generous
hospitality.”

Fleur drew out a worn velvet case, which she opened
to show the wandmaker. The tiara sat glittering and
twinkling in the light from the low-hanging lamp.

“Moonstones and diamonds,” said Griphook, who had
sidled into the room without Harry noticing. “Made by
goblins, I think?”

“And paid for by wizards,” said Bill quietly, and the
goblin shot him a look that was both furtive and
challenging.

A strong wind gusted against the cottage windows as
Bill and Ollivander set off into the night. The rest of
them squeezed in around the table; elbow to elbow
and with barely enough room to move, they started to
eat. The fire crackled and popped in the grate beside
them. Fleur, Harry noticed, was merely playing with
her food; she glanced at the window every few
minutes; however, Bill returned before they had
finished their first course, his long hair tangled by the
wind.



Page | 580 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling




“Everything’s fine,” he told Fleur. “Ollivander settled
in, Mum and Dad say hello. Ginny sends you all her
love. Fred and George are driving Muriel up the wall,
they’re still operating an Owl-Order business out of
her back room. It cheered her up to have her tiara
back, though. She said she thought we’d stolen it.”

“Ah, she eez charmante, your aunt,” said Fleur
crossly, waving her wand and causing the dirty plates
to rise and form a stack in midair. She caught them
and marched out of the room.

“Daddy’s made a tiara,” piped up Luna. “Well, more of
a crown, really.”

Ron caught Harry’s eye and grinned; Harry knew that
he was remembering the ludicrous headdress they
had seen on their visit to Xenophilius.

“Yes, he’s trying to re-create the lost diadem of
Ravenclaw. He thinks he’s identified most of the main
elements now. Adding the billywig wings really made
a difference — ”

There was a bang on the front door. Everyone’s head
turned toward it. Fleur came running out of the
kitchen, looking frightened; Bill jumped to his feet,
his wand pointing at the door; Harry, Ron, and
Hermione did the same. Silently Griphook slipped
beneath the table, out of sight.

“Who is it?” Bill called.

“It is I, Remus John Lupin!” called a voice over the
howling wind. Harry experienced a thrill of fear; what
had happened? “I am a werewolf, married to
Nymphadora Tonks, and you, the Secret-Keeper of
Shell Cottage, told me the address and bade me come
in an emergency!”

Page | 581 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - J.K. Rowling